Mrs Polokwane finalist Maggie Matloa extended a helping hand to Ga-Maboi Drop-In Centre in Nobody by donating R5 000 to the organisation on Saturday.
The centre caters for orphans and children from impoverished families by providing them with cooked meals and food parcels, facilitating educational programmes and encouraging a positive and healthy lifestyle. Matloa said the money had been donated by different sponsors and she was delighted that she had managed to bring good Samaritans on board to reach out to the centre. She emphasised that the personnel and children at the organisation were happy and had welcomed the cheque with bright smiles.
Matloa further stressed that the centre does not have a decent building to cater for children as their Wendy house and fence were blown away by heavy storm early this year. She pleaded with individuals and companies to assist the organisation with money or building material for them to construct a decent shelter for their dependants.
Centre founder Lerato Mojapelo-Maluleke informed Polokwane Observer that they had to stop children from coming to the centre for their own safety. With her 43rd birthday being on 5 January, she wishes to raise funds for the centre to construct a decent home for the children. She indicated that it was painful that some children from impoverished families spend a day without a proper meal. The loss of the Wendy house and fence hindered rendering services at the centre, she explained.
Mojapelo-Maluleke added that her desire was to help children with a dignified structure and fix the fence before her birthday for the centre to continue with the good work that it has been doing since its establishment in 2008. She pleaded with Good Samaritans to find it in their hearts to reach out and touch the lives of orphans and vulnerable children who are being served at the centre.
Those interested in assisting can contact Mojapelo-Maluleke on 082 429 0541.
Story: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Storm damage to Ga-Maboi Drop-In Centre Wendy house and fence has a dramatically negative impact on services rendered by the facility.