Two professors from the University of Limpopo (UL), Linda Skaal and Tholene Sodi have been appointed as the board members of the South African Medical Research Council (SAMRC).
According to a media statement released by the University Skaal will serve as Vice-Chairperson of the council while Sodi will chair the Human Resources and Remuneration Committee until 31 October 2022.
Tholene Sodi.
“Over the next three-years, the duo will help realise SAMRC’s mandate to improve the health of the country’s population through research, development and technology transfer. The scope of SAMRC’s research projects includes tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, cardiovascular and non-communicable diseases, gender and health, and alcohol and other drug abuse,” reads the statement.
The multi award winning Skaal is the acting Director of School of Health Care Sciences at the university with a wealth of experience in the health fraternity since 1993.
She rose through the ranks within SAMRC between 2016 and 2019 as she served the body as an ordinary board member.
She was quoted to have said her appointment was a great opportunity to contribute to the wellbeing of all South Africans through her expertise and also a huge achievement in her career. “I look forward to advancing health research through the council. Being vice-chairperson comes with huge responsibilities that include overseeing governance of the organisation. My tenure with the council equipped me with skills to accomplish challenging tasks, as I assume this role, I am willing to carry the responsibility on my shoulders.”
Since 2016 the established researcher and public health specialist, Skaal has been part of SAMRC-Swedish Forte (a three-year collaborative research project between UL and Lund University) that focuses on healthcare, specifically on inequalities in health and health systems policies.
Sodi who is attached to the Department of Psychology has also been reappointed to the council’s board for the second term but this time to head the Human Resources and Remuneration Committee.
He is a registered and practising clinical psychologist with more than 30 years’ of clinical, lecturing, management and consulting experience. He served his first term as the Council’s Board Member from November 2016 to October 2019.
His key area of research and specialisation is mental health. He has interests in culture and mental health, indigenous healing systems, African psychology, mental retardation, mental health policy, suicide, phenomenology and phenomenological research, and implementation science research.
Sodi was quoted to have said: “I am confident that my experience of serving in various statutory bodies will contribute meaningfully to furthering the SAMRC’s mission of improving the nation’s health and quality of life through promoting and conducting relevant and responsive health research, development, innovation and research translation.”
Story: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com