Allegations that the fire hydrants in Excelsior Street were inoperative when needed to contain the fire that gutted Gome China Shop and a part of NJ Fresh Produce and Butchery last night have fuelled beliefs that the fire could have been controlled at an early stage, limiting damage to the owners of the premises as well as the shop owner.
To compound the matter, a source involved in the initial investigation on the premises claimed the valves supplying water to the automatic sprinkler system inside the building were also closed. “If the system had worked as it should, it is likely that the fire could have been stopped before major damage resulted,” the source said.
While the cause of the fire was unknown at time of going to press another source that was on the scene just after the fire had started said that he had been informed that welding work was in progress before the fire started.
It is believed that goods worth thousands of Rand were destroyed in the blaze which reportedly started at a general dealership allegedly rented by a Chinese national. The shop was reportedly completely destroyed and adjacent shops sustained partial damage.
Owners of other shops in the building, emergency workers and bystanders braved the danger by clearing expensive items such as computers and portraits from shops.
Water tankers were deployed to augment water supply from the hydrants in Hospital Street. “We had to provide additional water because water pressure in the city is very low and impacts on the effectiveness of fire hydrants,” another source explained.
Haccum Hough, the owner of an adjacent vacant fishing and tackle store, indicated that everyone had assisted by carrying expensive and valuable items from the shops to avoid it being destroyed in the fire. Hough said that he had recently moved the contents of his shop elsewhere and none of his stock was in danger.
Polokwane Police Spokesperson Lesiba Ramoshaba indicated that he was aware of the fire but that that no case has been registered yet. “A case will only be registered once foul play is expected,” he said.
Communications and Marketing Manager of Polokwane Municipality, Matshidiso Mothapo confirmed that the matter was being investigated and that comment would be provided when more information was available.
Both the shopkeeper and owner of the building declined to comment, save to confirm that there was a fire.
Story: BARRY VILJOEN
>>barryv.observer@gmail.com
RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com