Most real estate agencies striving to remain relevant in today’s world are sometimes going through a phase of disruption and transformation and have to reassess their systems and processes in light of constantly evolving consumer expectations.
In an articles by Property24 five essential steps are provided to achieve the kind of next-level service.
Transition from sales to service
Traditionally, real estate agents have been incentivised (both financially and through typical workflows) to maximise transaction volumes over service quality. This is a situation that has long needed reassessment.
The transactional side of real estate is not where the true value of a professional agent lies. The strength is the knowledge, experience and analytical advice brought to the table. To truly maximise the customer experience, transition of focus from property transactions to the value added in this service capacity is necessary.
Strictly enforce ethical standards
Trustworthiness is an essential part of service quality, particularly when it comes to industries managing major financial decisions like property purchases and sales. As such, establishing strictly enforced ethical standards should be a priority for every real estate company, together with ongoing management and agent training.
Provide consistently impressive customer service
One or two outstanding real estate agencies aren’t going to save an entire industry. Its up to each and every property professional to come together to rebuild consumer confidence in the services they provide.
Unpredictable quality from agents of dramatically varied competence is doing nobody any favours. If agencies can band together as an industry to learn from each other, support new agents entering the profession, and uphold meaningful standards in licensing and accreditation, the industry stand to benefit at the end of the day.
Embrace innovators and remove barriers to entry
The property industry has often been criticised for introducing artificial and overly-restrictive barriers to data access and utilisation. This only limits property professionals’ ability to embrace new ideas and improve the real estate experience.
Give back
The importance of service goes beyond the one-on-one relationship between agent and client. Every real estate professional should also be making an effort to serve their community as a whole.
Giving back to communities, whether that’s through sharing expertise or supporting local initiatives, is a very important part of what the industry does.