PEPPS Polokwane Preparatory School and College rewarded and celebrated their academic, cultural and sport top performers during the institution’s annual prize giving ceremony last Tuesday.
Recipients got to shine on stage in front of their educators, parents and guardians when they received accolades such as matric academic subject awards, general trophy awards, cultural colours, academic colours, sport colours, Vadit Cum Duo colours, provincial colours, national colours, academic honours, cultural honours, sport honours and merit honours. The ceremony was also used to announce the 2020 prefects. The two head prefects are expected to be named during the assembly session early next year.
PEPPS College Head Nelia de Beer’s speech focused on ambition and she motivated the Grade 12s to continue reaching for the stars. She said an ambitious attitude can lead anyone to triumph and satisfaction, regardless of what is put in front of them. Having talent means nothing if you have no ambition, no passion to work hard at any given point of the day, De Beer explained. She added that ambition was what gave people a purpose in life and allowed them to fight for what they believed in.
She reminded that ambitious people understood that there were no shortcuts and that only persistence that would get them what they want. She concluded by saying if it was one’s dream to be a doctor, architect, engineer or any other profession one should make sure to dedicate time to it and never ever look for the shortcut.
PEPPS Executive Head Annabel Roberts reminded the audience: “At PEPPS we are in the business of ‘Creating Tomorrow’s Leaders’ and it is a joy to see so many young people being recognised for achievements. Let us, however, never forget that our value as human beings does not come from the prizes that we win. Our value comes from a place much deeper than that. It comes from our humanity and our desire to be the best version of ourselves.”
Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Kelsey Peceur who was presented with the Willetts Trophy for best all-round performance in Matric.
Kutlwano Ralehlaka and Tabitha Ntumba share the Library Trophy for Dedication and Commitment to duties as library prefects.
Khabeni Ngobeni, winner of the Timothy Trophy for Enthusiasm and Diligence in Music.
Daniela Caldeira dos Santos, proud recipient of the Zimba Trophy for Best Project entered into the Science Fair.
This year’s recipient of the Tladi Trophy for outstanding performance in debate is Tshegofatso Ledwaba.
Kimia Samimi is the recipient of the Vadit Cum Duo trophy for Effort and Service beyond the call of duty.
The Abrahams Trophy for Christian Leadership and Cultural trophy for Best involvement in Cultural Activities belongs the Tshepo Molotja.
Thato Moshokwa and Kelsey Peceur share Prefects’ Spirit Trophy for a Matric learner who encourages positive spirit in the school.
Top performer Abed Naqvi who received the Stone Trophy for Best performance in Accounting in Matric, Smith Family Trophy for Best performance in Life Sciences in Matric, Prism Trophy for Best performance in Mathematics in Matric and Dayah Trophy for Best performance in Physical Sciences in Matric.
Kreeti Dayah and Abed Naqvi shared the Smith Trophy for Best Overall Achievement in Life Sciences.
Juliet Harris and Deepta Dayah share the EGD Trophy for Best performance in Engineering Graphics and Design in Matric.
Munaka Munyai is the proud recipient of the Business Studies Research Trophy for Best Matric research project in Business Studies, Branson Trophy for Best performance in Business Studies in Matric, Zinth-Wood Trophy for Best performance in English in Matric and Naidoo Trophy for Best Matric research project in Geography.
Deepta Dayah, EGD PAT trophy for Best Engineering Graphics and Design Practical Assessment Task in Matric.
Madzanga Ramabulana, MJ Tladi Trophy for Best performance in History in Matric.
Yolanda Radingoana, Bits and Bytes Brophy for Best Information Technology Practical Assessment Task in Matric.
Munaka Munyai receives the Trust Trophy for Prefect with most outstanding leadership ability.
Lunghile Ngobeni, Sportsman of the Year, Football player of the Season and Tennis player of the Season.
Mahlatse Mamabolo is the Sportswoman of the Year.
Talented rhythmic gymnast Micaela Wood scoops a trophy for Best Performance in a Non-School Activity.