In her extended family circle 30-year-old Lee Huang might jokingly be referred to as the Bonnie in now ex-partner Baiden Scheepers’ Clyde episode, but she is adamant about having her name cleared after a dramatic arrest with her then boyfriend in Polokwane around three months ago.
Prior to Huang making another court appearance along with Scheepers on Monday, she requested an interview that covered facets of her life, their time together and reports on the arrest and ensuing court case that resulted in her discontent with the reference to the term “accomplice”. With the story Polokwane Observer attempts to steer clear of the merits of the matter and in instances information is being withheld based on prior consideration.
Her story starts in Johannesburg where she was born to a Chinese father and a mother of mixed race, being adopted by an Indian and Portuguese couple and the city to which she has already returned to start a new life since her earlier release on bail in a case of possession of suspected stolen property and housebreaking equipment. According to information a charge of possession of drugs was added in Scheepers’ case after an incident at court during which he was allegedly attempting to escape the previous week. He is facing further unrelated charges.
Huang explained that she has already relocated back to Gauteng where she established a company last year and envisaged to export globally in future. In the meantime she has her two young children with her after she and her husband separated around the time she met Scheepers in Polokwane earlier this year.
She stressed the point that they were from different backgrounds and he didn’t actually tell her what he was engaged in, simply saying that he used her one vehicle for tow-trucking. She was surprised about the allegations against him and was pulled into his affairs when they were arrested at the house in Church Street. In this regard she emphasised that she hadn’t deserved the treatment she received as she was not involved with him in any wrongdoing.
She first got arrested for her link to a white sedan, which she claimed to be owning, that was suspected to have been used in armed robberies while the Police were searching for Scheepers, she mentioned. She was released the following day. From the puzzle pieces placed on the table it was understood that she moved her belongings from Ladanna to the house in downtown Polokwane where she was later arrested again, that time along with Scheepers.
According to Huang she has never been in conflict with the law before, other than having been arrested for the alleged acts Scheepers was suspected of. “For me to be here is very unfair, because I did not do any crime whatsoever. I did not have any knowledge of his doings outside. You must know we were freshly in a relationship so I haven’t seen or heard of all the (suspected) bad things he has (allegedly) done,” Huang stressed.
He never showed her his bad side and she only knew him as a good person who would always assist someone in need, Huang said. She reckoned he didn’t appear to be a violent person. “So for me I just know him as Baiden, and that ‘s all.” He was very sweet, surprised her by cooking for her on a fire while quipping that she shouldn’t tell anyone, or heating her bath water. “He treated me like a queen.”
She remarked that since he has been “inside” they haven’t been communicating, hence she assumed they didn’t have a relationship any longer. She was good to continue her life without him, Huang assured and elaborated by saying that she’d rather stay away than being in a space where she would land up in jail. “It is two different backgrounds, you must understand. I come from a background of living a larnie life and the background of his is from the streets.” Yet she had an attraction towards him, she conceded. “But I didn’t know he was a bad boy at the time.” No matter what, she still had love for Scheepers, she mentioned.
She maintained her innocence in it all, reckoning it was unfair for her being implicated in the case simply because she was dating Scheepers. Asked whether she would have followed him if he would have expected of her to do something wrong, she responded saying she was a home-bound girl who has worked hard for her money since the age of 15, not liking to take an easy way out. If she had the choice of a life with Scheepers again she would opt for it, but indicated he had to change because she was not going to follow the direction he had pulled her in.
Huang was adamant that she would never live in Polokwane again for Johannesburg was her home town. For now she intended to pursue her company interests which she wanted to invest in, she concluded.
Story/photo: YOLANDE NEL
>>observer.yolande@gmail.com