Polokwane Police arrested three suspects within hours after they allegedly committed an armed robbery at a house in Magazyn Street on the weekend.
The suspects were expected to appear in the Polokwane Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday, according to Polokwane Police Spokesperson Lesiba Ramoshaba.
According to information a 34-year-old man and his father were allegedly accosted by three suspects while in the garden outside their house. The robbers reportedly ordered them to lie on the ground at the kitchen door then robbed them of their cell phones at gunpoint.
While the suspects allegedly ordered their victims to open the door, the house owner’s wife heard the commotion, pressed the panic button of the alarm system and went hiding elsewhere in the house.
The suspects allegedly forced the owner to show them where the safe was but managed to take only R300 from wallets found inside the house before seemingly being spooked by the bell at the gate when members of a security company responded to the panic alarm. The suspects fired several shots as they scattered in different directions.
Reportedly one of the suspects met the driver of a silver Audi in Suid Street and allegedly threw the firearm onto the back seat before running off and the car disappeared.
Polokwane Police were notified and immediately responded. They stopped and searched a suspect in Magazyn Street, subsequently arresting him on the spot after finding car keys belonging to the victim in his possession.
The suspect was questioned and he confirmed to have known the driver of the Audi. The search for the vehicle continued until it was traced somewhere else in the city.
The driver allegedly told Police that the firearm had been taken to a woman in Extension 44. When Police arrived at her home the firearm was found and she was arrested with the driver. It is alleged that two suspects are still at large.
Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo also confirmed the incident and indicated that the Audi and firearm were confiscated.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com