During a family fun day fundraising event held at Mitchell House sport fields recently, Mrs Polokwane finalists Mapula Legodi and Lerato Ndlovu managed to raise R23 100 which was donated to Ekuphumleni Restoration Home – ThyRest in Seshego on Saturday.
The money will be used to construct an administration block at the organisation. The proceeds include R15 000 worth of office goods that were won by Legodi as runner-up in a recent ‘Smart Office’ competition. ThyRest is a shelter for women from all socio-economic backgrounds who have been victims of sexual abuse, rape, human trafficking and sex workers who want out of the trade.
Legodi emphasised that the shelter was founded to assist victims with healing and restoration to enable them to utilise their painful experiences to regain control of their lives and rid themselves of feelings and unhelpful behaviour that was caused by the trauma. She said the family fun day was used to create awareness about gender-based violence, human trafficking and instilling confidence in children. The day started with aerobics, fun activities for the kids, and awareness campaign, soccer match and mouth-watering food sold at various stalls.
“The gathering was about knowing how screen time can affect kids’ health and why it is important for them to play outdoors. We made sure that the kiddies corner is sponsored and well-resourced with a set-up, mascots, jumping castle, colouring sheets and drinks for children to have fun. Nobesuthu Javu who is the owner and founder of ThyRest led the awareness campaign on gender-based violence and human trafficking,” Legodi explained.
She further indicated that a soccer match between Many Membered Son (MMS) and World Restoration Church (WRC) ended with a score line of 3-4 in favour of WRC who were crowned the champions of the day.
Their counterpart, Engelinah Motjatji Nkwi­nika also hosted a successful charity fundraising event at Farmlife Lapa recently. The aim of the event was to raise funds for Ratanang Educare Centre to address their needs. During the gathering people pledged and donated valuable items such as scooters, sleeping sponges, kids’ chairs and tables that are scheduled to be handed over to the centre in due course. Nkwinika emphasised that she was delighted and fulfilled as she managed to ‘Be the reason someone smiles’ as per the theme of my event.
“I chose this charity because I grew up without both parents and I have realised that kids are vulnerable and they cannot defend themselves even if they have parents. Being part of the Mrs Polokwane journey has given me an exposure as I was not aware that I can contribute to change someone’s life. The pageant encourages us to contribute to communities and assist the less privileged,” Nkwinika explained.
She pleaded with individuals and companies to contribute to her initiative ‘If you can’t feed 100 people, at least feed one’ by making any sort of donation. Those who are still interested on contributing to this charity can contact her on 072 543 8834.
Story: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Mrs Polokwane finalist Engelinah Motjatji Nkwinika is on a mission to change the lives of underprivileged children.
Mrs Polokwane organiser Charlene Geswind with Joylene Manganyi, a pastor.
Mrs Polokwane finalists Lerato Ndlovu and Mapula Legodi with ThyRest founder, Nebesuthu Javu at a recent family fun day.
Family fun day attendees take part in an aerobics session.