Researcher and Senior Academic Development Consultant at the Centre for Academic Excellence (CAE) of the University of Limpopo (UL), Newman Wadesango received the 2019 Vice-Chancellor’s Excellence Award for Best Overall Established Researcher during UL’s annual excellence awards held in Polokwane last Friday.
Wadesango joined UL in 2016 and initiated the development of the University’s journal – African Perspectives of Research in Teaching and Learning of which the first issue was published in June 2017. His fervent research interests in academic development, educational leadership and gender focusing on teaching and learning as well as professional development yielded 850 citations since 2012.
He was quoted to have said entering the field of research can be overwhelming and intimidating. “All successful researchers develop the ability to listen to negative feedback without taking it as a personal judgement on their worth as an individual,” he remarked.
He reportedly said that receiving the award challenges him to set higher goals in research, such as applying for and being admitted in the B category of the NRF rating as well as moulding the next generation of scholars through collaborations. “I want to share with the academic staff the developing learning and teaching practices that are responsive to national and international changes and demands.”
He has published a book on educational leadership and presented more than 15 conference papers and published over 135 articles in national and international high impact journals in the last 10 years. “I want to urge emerging researchers to write regularly, set targets and stick to them. Novice researchers should master the art of arranging support, prioritise their work and learn to say no to anything that doesn’t contribute to their predetermined goals.”
As full professor of Educational Management he conducts workshops for academics on assessment, Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) and facilitation of teaching. He also coordinates the Postgraduate Diploma in Higher Education programme, interdisciplinary project and mentors CAE researchers.
Story: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com