Last Tuesday turned into a nightmare for a Nirvana woman in labour when her husband who was making his way home to take her to hospital, was pulled off the road and allegedly assaulted and subsequently arrested by a municipal traffic officer over a licence plate not fitted to the front of his vehicle.
Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed that a case of common assault was being investigated
At the time of the couple’s interview with Polokwane Observer, Raeesah Omar was still in labour but adamant to share her and her husband, Shaheen’s ordeal.
Raeesah explained that the baby was only due on 18 November but a recent visit to the doctor confirmed that the baby had already stopped growing and he advised that she go to the hospital as soon as she experiences aggravated pain.
Allegedly getting assaulted
Shaheen explained: “My wife called me and suggested we should go to the hospital. I left work at about 14:15 when I was pulled over by a traffic officer in Tagore Street. He was from the onset very rude and pulled the keys from the ignition complaining about the front licence plate not being fitted on my car. The licence plate had fallen off and I had placed it on the dashboard as a temporary measure.”
While he followed the officer to his service vehicle he reportedly became violent and started pushing and slapping Shaheen. “He radioed for back-up while I called my wife to inform her about the situation. Within minutes four other traffic officers arrived to detain me. It does not make sense as I was not once violent or showed any kind of aggravation towards the officers,” Shaheen said.
By then community members had gathered to witness the ordeal. The assault on Shaheen allegedly continued as officers forced him onto the back seat of the officer’s double cab service vehicle face down with his feet in the air.
Raeesah said: “I arrived just as they put my husband in the back of the bakkie. Even my five-year-old son saw how they hit his father and started crying. By then a tow-truck had also already been arranged to take my husband’s vehicle to the pound. The officer was very rude, and when I asked which Police station they were taking my husband to he answered: ‘F*ck you. Go to all Police stations and find out,’” according to Raeesah.
Phone call not allowed at holding cells
At the Polokwane Police holding cells Raeesah was not allowed to see her husband nor was he allowed to make a phone call. “I just wanted to tell him that everything was all right and that I had already spoken to an attorney. Eventually they only allowed me two minutes with him and he had to spend the night in the cells,” she said.
While in extreme pain she went back to the cells the following day (Wednesday) where she learnt that her husband had still not been charged.
Shaheen was eventually at 13:30 charged with failure to comply with instructions of a traffic officer, assault of a traffic officer and resisting arrest. With the help of the attorney Shaheen was released about 45 minutes later.
Raeesah alleged that while she was at the holding cells she also noticed two men who had been arrested on the scene after taking videos on their cell phones. They were reportedly forced to delete the footage before they were released.
More drama at pound 
After Shaheen was released the couple went to the municipal traffic department to have the impounded vehicle released.
“When we arrived and asked for assistance one officer told us that there was a special note attached to the docket that the arresting officer should be called the moment we arrive. When he pitched at the premises he was rude and said the vehicle must go for roadworthiness tests just to teach us a lesson,” Raeesah said.
She told him that the vehicle had been bought three months ago and had then undergone roadworthiness tests. He reportedly replied saying if she was tested three months ago for HIV it is not to say that her status would still be the same.
According to her the officer was out looking for faults on the vehicle and they eventually had to pay R3 500 to release it which they were only able to get the following (Thursday) morning.
Refused assistance at Westenburg Police Station 
After being advised by their attorney to open a counter case against the traffic officer, the couple’s problems continued at the Westenburg Police Station.
“We arrived at about 19:00 on Wednesday at the station. The officer at the counter refused to help us and I called the attorney on the spot for advice. As I repeated everything the attorney said by taking the officer’s name and reporting him, the officer quickly changed his attitude and my husband was allowed to make a statement,” Raeesah said.
Expected to appear in court 
Shaheen was warned to be at the Polokwane Magistrate’s Court on Thursday morning to face the charges brought against him.
“We were assisted by our attorney and while we were still waiting he returned after speaking to the senior prosecutor and indicated that we can go and that all charges against me were being withdrawn,” Shaheen said.
The reason for the withdrawal of the charges is not known.
Doctor’s report 
Shaheen visited a doctor on Thursday after court and his report revealed that Shaheen had a painful neck, pain in his chest and superficial wounds to his wrists and face.
Raeesah on Tuesday told Polokwane Observer that the baby has been delivered but that he was not well and currently recuperating in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).
Police, muni’s response
Mojapelo confirmed that the complainant alleged that he was assaulted by a traffic officer in Nirvana but that no arrest has been made yet. Polokwane Observer is withholding the identity of the officer.
Polokwane Municipality Communications Manager Matshidiso Mothapo confirmed that the officer allegedly involved is employed at the municipal traffic department. “We have, however, never received any internal report on such an incident. The matter is with the Police and we will allow investigations to unfold. We condemn any brutal force used by municipal officials,” Mothapo said.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com