The Limpopo Economic Development Agency (Leda) golf tournament, a charitable event that benefits the less fortunate has developed to be one of the most popular individual sporting events in Limpopo.
On Friday the agency hosted one of its best golfing contests since its inception 12 years ago at the Polokwane Golf Club. MEC for Economic Development, Environment and Tourism (Ledet), Thabo Mokone was in attendance when 124 men and women converged on the greens for a contest yielded R20 000 in donation from golfers during registration. Players turned up in force to support the event and attendees acknowledged the gathering as a great success. Since 2007 the Leda golf tourney has raised money towards charity organisations that provide care and support to people living with disabilities, destitute families and communities. This year the competition was able to raise over R300 000 from sponsors and most of it will be channelled to Leda’s corporate social investment programme.
Speaking during prize giving gala dinner, Mokone encouraged all the golfers to pledge for charity as this was a good thing to do. “There are people who are not as fortunate as we are. We need to support those people and this platform provides such an opportunity. I would like to thank everyone who made the challenge a success both by participating and extending a helping hand in a form of donations. The Leda golf tournament is here to stay. Next year we will come here once more to enjoy the event with you. Economic development is all about people,” he said.
Leda Corporate Services acting Executive Manager, Theresa Raophala thanked the tournament sponsors – Absa, Vodacom, Old Mutual, In2Itech, Legacy Polokwane BMW, Hereford Group, Limpopo Tourism Agency, Limpopo Gambling Board, Tsebang Chartered Accountants, Energy FM, Distell, Barloworld, Risima Housing Finance, CMR and PMC – for their continued support. She described the event as an incredible day that was enjoyed by all and added that the agency was looking forward to hosting future golf events.
Absa’s regional Head Limpopo Business Bank and Private Bank, Umesh Madhav said: “We are proud to have sponsored the 2019 Leda Golf Day. The event gave us a huge opportunity to showcase our brand. It was great to have gone out and networked with a range of different sponsors and like-minded businesses, all while enjoying a round of golf. We want to thank all the players for coming and showing their support as well as the club itself, for their brilliant backing.” Absa donated R100 000 towards the event and became the platinum sponsor.
The men’s division was won by Jacob Phala who emerged victorious with 41 points for the second time in a row following his triumph in the same tournament last year. For his achievement, Phala received a Cobra driver, a medal and a trophy. Ladies champion was Nola Peceur received the same prizes after completing the contest with 35 points.
Leda interim Chief Executive Officer Matata Mokoele thanked everybody for supporting the event and gave assurance: “Leda will bring you together to have fun and most importantly to donate for a good cause. Our communities need us and of course we need them. Let us bring our resources together and support where we can.”
Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Nola Peceur, winner of the ladies’ division is congratulated by Ledet MEC Thabo Mokone.
Ledet MEC Thabo Mokone and ABSA regional head Limpopo Business Bank and Private Bank, Umesh Mudhav congratulate Jacob Phala on winning men’s division.
Eddy Baloyi, first runner up in the men’s division.
Fundi Malaza first runner up in the ladies’ division.
Former Social Development MECMapula Mokaba-Phukwana chips the ball from the bunker.
The second runner-up in men’s division is Vuyisile Mehlomakulu with 40 points on a count out.
Joe Legora finishes fourth in men’s category with 39 points on a count in.
Joe Mackay completes the Leda golf challenge in fifth place with 39 points on a count out.
Lady Ratsela settles for fifth place in ladies’ division with 30 points.
Jade Kekana is nearest to pin 16 in men’s division.
Sam Maboya is rewarded for playing nearest to pin four in men’s category.
Anthony Morudu manages the longest drive at number 2 in men’s division.
Tumi Mabalane is rewarded for playing the longest drive at number 18 in ladies’ category.
Men’s division winner Jacob Phala claims another prize for playing nearest to pin 11.
Golfers visit the Leda stall for food and refreshments.
Bruce Diale chips the ball to the green.
Limpopo Tourism Agency officials Tumi Mpe and Sazan Ramodike at their stall.