While Polokwane was turned into green and gold on Friday as various individuals, institutions, businesses, schools and the Department of Sport, Arts and Culture showed their support towards the Springboks, some locals were privileged to experience all the action first hand in Japan.
The Springboks claimed the Webb Ellis Cup after defeating England 32-12 in the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Yokohama on Saturday.
Rugby fever was high across the city as the department embarked on a motorcade to SABC Park and to Mall of the North. Blowing horns and officials inside vehicles and on the back of bakkies waving the South African flag caused residents and other motorists to join the rally showing their support for the Bokke.
The motorcade was led by Head of Department Nchabeleng Tsebe who also urged residents of Limpopo to gather at public viewing areas across the province to show their support.
Pietersburg Laerskool dressed in green and gold sent hundreds of green and gold balloons into the air while learners at Hoër Tegniese Skool Tom Naudé were even allowed to write exam wearing Springbok jerseys.
Local businessman Glen Groenewald was among the lucky ones to visit Japan and attend some of the matches while Mike Adams, Rob Tooley, Morris Pogrund, Denise Tooley and Keith and Clive Baragwanath also showed their support abroad.
Meanwhile, it was learnt that Sprinbok Coach Rassie Erasmus, Captain Siya Kolisi and a number of other players were expected back in the country by 19:00 on Tuesday.
Other players were expected to arrive at OR Thambo International Airport yesterday (Wednesday) at 17:30 and 20:00 respectively.
Story and photos: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
One of the bakkies loaded with Springbok supporters.
Mike Adams, Rob Tooley, Morris Pogrund, Denise Tooley and Keith and Clive Baragwanath at one of the stadiums in Japan during the Rugby World Cup. (Photos: Supplied)
Head of Department Nchabeleng Tsebe addresses the crowd.
In the middle Pietersburg Laerskool former head girl and boy Hané and Henko du Toit with currently head leaders Dominique Faul and Hendro Moulder.