Operation Swara Tsotsi continues to deliver positive results with the arrest of nearly 180 suspects when the initiative was launched by Transport and Community Safety MEC Dickson Masemola in Mahwelereng last Wednesday.
Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo indicated that a total of 172 suspects were arrested in the cluster by means of roadblocks, stop and searches, compliance inspections at businesses including liquor outlets and tracing of wanted suspects.
Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba inspects what seems to be dagga found at a house.
The operation focussed on various problematic areas in the Mahwelereng Cluster such as Mokopane and surrounding villages.
Mojapelo emphasised that Swara Tsotsi which was officially launched at the end of June has now been infused into Safer Festive Season operations which are currently conducted across the province.
Besides Masemola the operation in Mahwelereng was also attended by Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba, deputy commissioners and commanders.
With the Festive Season already upon us the management also deemed it appropriate to conduct high density operations and also mobilise the communities through crime awareness campaigns to ensure that the citizens of Limpopo are reminded to continue being considerate, responsible and vigilant for the sake of their own personal safety and that of others, Mojapelo indicated.
Arrests were effected for crimes ranging from assault, robbery, burglary at business and residential premises, theft, common robbery, crimen injuria, illegal gambling, contravention of the Immigration Act and the Road Traffic Act, drinking alcohol in public, selling liquor without a licence and possession of dagga.
Some of the suspected stolen and illegal goods confiscated during the operation.
During the arrest Police recovered five cell phones, one sachet of dagga, a self-made needle, syringe, illegal cigarettes and expired goods. They further impounded a minibus, discontinued a second minibus and issued 95 fines. Police also searched 555 vehicles and 1 186 persons while also distributing 2 500 pamphlets on safety.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com