At least ten people died in two separate accidents on Limpopo roads on Friday and Saturday respectively.
During the first incident on Friday evening a man identified as Bizzett Bothkol Matlala (37) expired when his Volkswagen City Golf allegedly collided head-on with a minibus on the R37 outside Polokwane at about 20:52.
Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo indicated that the minibus caught fire and two passengers were seriously injured. The minibus was allegedly carrying 15 passengers towards Lebowakgomo and the driver of the Golf was travelling in the opposite direction when the accident occurred. A case of culpable homicide is being investigated.
Meanwhile, Police have identified the nine people who perished during a head-on collision between a bakkie and a Toyota Avanza on the R539 outside Hoedspruit on Saturday afternoon.
Mojapelo said the accident happened at about 16:00 when a Toyota bakkie travelling from the Swadini direction collided head-on with a Toyota Avanza travelling towards Hoedspruit.
He indicated that eight people were killed instantly during the collision while two others were transported to hospital for medical treatment. Another later succumbed to his injuries.
Mojapelo further indicated that members of the Endangered Species Unit were also summoned to the scene after the discovery of a consignment of buckets full of snake skin, dried star fish and dried crabs, among others. It is reported that the items were transported on the back of the bakkie.
The deceased were identified as Constance Makhubele (46), Tumisho Maebe (28), Moses Ngwako Kgohloane (23), Magagula Mandla (31), Prudence Mahowa (23), Lesley Thete (30), Release Sandile Mathebula (23), Anthel Mathebula (24) and Samuel Manyama (32).
Transport and Community MEC Dickson Masemola was expected to join families during the identification process of the deceased in Namakgale.
According to departmental spokesperson Joel Seabi the MEC has extended his condolences to relatives and friends of the deceased. Masemola was quoted to have said: “We cannot afford to continue to lose so many lives on the roads of the province. Road users have got to be responsible and help us preserve lives, period. The full might of the law will be unleashed to road traffic law infringers to the latter.”
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
The accident scene between Hoedspruit and Swadini where nine people perished.