Baiden Scheepers who was recently rearrested in a dramatic turn of events is now facing another charge after he allegedly tried to escape during his appearance in the Polokwane Magistrate’s Court last Monday.
Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed the incident and indicated that a case of attempted escape from lawful custody is now also being investigated against him.
He appeared in the local magistrate’s court on Friday but Mojapelo could not provide the latest on the case as the docket was allegedly still at court.
According to information Scheepers was seemingly handed a packet of cigarettes by his alleged girlfriend during court proceedings. It is not clear what the packet of cigarettes contained but it was alleged that it might have been dagga. While Scheepers was in the dock he reportedly tried to make a run for it and initial information received alleged that he was only apprehended on the premises of the Polo­kwane Municipality opposite the court building.
Mojapelo however indicated that Scheepers’ attempt was thwarted and he was arrested while still within the court premises. “The circumstances surrounding this incident are still not clear at this stage but investigations are continuing,” Mojapelo said.
It was also learnt that Scheepers has since the attempted escape been moved from the Police holding cells to Polokwane Correctional Centre escape.
Scheepers appeared in the Polokwane Magistrate’s Court to continue his bail application on charges of possession of suspected stolen property and housebreaking equipment after his arrest in Church Street in August. He simultaneously appeared on a case of theft of motor vehicle allegedly committed in Westenburg recently.
Scheepers and Lourellee Huang (sic) who both face charges of possession of suspected stolen property and housebreaking equipment, were released on R500 bail each on 6 September only to see Scheepers back in court about three weeks after being rearrested along Grobler Street for being in possession of suspected housebreaking equipment on 21 September.
Questions were then raised when Scheepers, regarded as one of the city’s most wanted suspects, was at first released on bail. NPA Limpopo Spokesperson Mashudu Malabi-Dzhangi in response to a query from Polokwane Observer, said: “In his bail application the accused disclosed another pending case. However, he had no previous convictions. In this bail application his address was confirmed and he was not a flight risk. The court regarded the presence of this pending case as insufficient to establish a pattern that the accused is prone to committing crime.”
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com