Members of Memorable Order of Tin Hats (Moth) in Polokwane gathered for a weekend of celebrations characterising the 75th anniversary of Botha Shellhole.
Toasts and recollections marked Saturday evening’s anniversary gala dinner programme that preceded the next day’s commemoration of Poppy Day, which echoed the initial sentiment about the flowers inhabiting the graves of soldiers. Armistice Day is celebrated each year following the cessation of hostilities on the Western Front of World War 1 at 11:00 on 11 November 1918.
During the event held at Peacehaven in the heart of Polokwa­ne, red poppies made an appearance in various forms. Noticeable was an art work by Friend of Botha Shellhole Magda Streicher that adorned part of the wall in the hall where guests gathered for an evening of tradition and ceremonial display. She said members approached her for a screen of poppies to be printed, but that she offered to produce it in acrylic instead which took her a week and a half. With visual arts being her first love she was considering increasingly engaging in the medium in future, she indicated before commencement of the dinner proceedings.
The next day a Remembrance Day parade and wreath laying ceremony was conducted at the Botha Shellhole. Members of the Air Force Base Makhado also joined the parade.
During the parade poems relating to the First World War were read to guests who were wearing the symbolic Poppy on the left of their chests. Adjutant of Botha Shellhole, André van Aswegen explained the meaning of the flower and said that the red symbolises the blood of fallen soldiers while the black represents the grief of families who remained behind. The green symbolises crops which were harvested on the battlefield after the war.
He concluded saying that green leaf always points in the direction of the 11 o’clock position which represents the 11th hour on the 11th day of the 11th month – the time when the war was ended.
The parade was concluded by the wreath laying ceremony and the singing of the National Anthem.
Story and photos: YOLANDE NEL
>>observer.yolande@gmail.com
RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
Air Force Base Makhado Logistical Coordinator Ernest Jacobs hands regalia to Botha Shellhole Old Bill Anton le Roux for inclusion in the on-site collection of relics displayed at the facility.
Moth member Wayne Thompson who rendered a historical overview of Botha Shellhole, proposes a toast to The Order during Saturday evening’s programme.
Moths and members of the Air Force Base Makhado in parade prior to marching to the ceremony.
Old Bill Anton le Roux addresses guests and leads the programme of the day.
Botha Shellhole Wee Bill Ben Vorster pins a red poppy to Pay Bill Roelof Lourens’s jacket with Old Bill Anton le Roux looking on prior to Saturday evening’s gala dinner in Polokwane.
Hoërskool Pietersburg Operational Head Louis Scott reads a poem relating to the war.
Old Bill Anton le Roux lays a wreath during the ceremony.
Magda Streicher, with Botha Shellhole Social Bill Anton Prinsloo against the backdrop of her art work.