Limpopo Hawks continue to focus on fraudulent activities at vehicle and driver’s licence testing stations across the province following the recent arrest of 11 suspects on related charges.
Spokesperson of the Limpopo Hawks Matimiba Maluleke indicted that a sting operation led to the arrest of a 37-year-old driving licence examiner and his 27-year-old accomplice for alleged corruption at Thulamela Municipality on Friday.
The operation stems from community outcry about the examiners who are reportedly selling driving licences to applicants in the Vhembe District.
The Hawks reacted to the complaints by conducting a thorough investigation during which it was revealed that some examiners collude with driving school instructors to sell driving licences to applicants for R1 500 whether they pass or fail, according to Maluleke.
The suspects were expected to appear in the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court on Monday on charges of corruption.
During a simultaneous operation the Hawks arrested five privately-owned vehicle testing station officials in Marble Hall for allegedly issuing roadworthy certificates for vehicles that were never brought to the station for physical examination. The suspects were expected to appear in the Groblersdal Magistrate’s Court earlier this week.
On Monday the Hakws clamped down on four privately owned vehicle testing station examiners in Makwarela outside Thohoyandou and arrested them for alleged fraud and corruption. Maluleke indicated that the operation was a joint effort between Hawks Serious Corruption Investigating Unit, Special Investigative Unit (SIU) and Johannesburg Metro Police Department.
It is alleged that the suspects were issuing roadworthy certificates for vehicles that were never physically tested at a testing station.
The four were expected to appear in the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday.
Maluleke concluded saying that as part of ongoing operation a number of vehicle testing stations in Limpopo are on the Hawks’ radar and many examiners from different areas including Musina, Lephalale, Marble Hall, Polokwane and Thohoyandou have since been arrested for alleged fraud and corruption.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com