One of the University of Limpopo’s (UL) long serving researchers, Mpho Moraba received the Overall Best-Established Teacher Award at the institution’s recent Research and Innovation Awards.
Moraba (67) was rewarded for his commitment to research and for producing quality scholarly work to inspire academics at the institution.
According to Johannes Selepe, acting Senior Publications Practitioner at UL, Moraba motivates learners to construct their understanding rather than reproduce their understanding or textbook material. He added that Moraba assists students to make sense of the world by relating his teaching to what they already know.
Moraba was quoted to have said the award would inspire him to continue doing more and assist students with various research projects. “I am so excited. This will inspire my students to emulate hard work. I am optimistic and never dwell on challenges because most of our students are from disadvantaged backgrounds, both educationally and economically.”
He reportedly stated that students learn best through interacting with their peers, hence his teaching is characterised by a variety of interactive teaching methods as well as blended learning.
“The transmission teaching approach is the most preferable teaching method over the years. I apply this approach to deliver introductory information at the beginning of the chapter or topic, starting with academic literacy acquisition, for the purpose of learner orientation. As the next step, I apply the developmental approach, with the primary goal being to develop increasingly complex and sophisticated ways of reasoning and problem-solving within a particular content area or field of practice.”
Moraba worked at Mankweng Hospital for 31 years as a medical technologist before moving to UL to lecture haematology modules in the Department of Pathology and Medical Sciences in 2007.
He obtained diplomas in Clinical Pathology and Medical Microbiology from the State Pathology Laboratory at Dr George Mkhari Hospital between 1974 and 1978.
He also holds a diploma in Haematology from the Advanced School of Laboratory Medicine under the South African Institute for Medical Research.
He boast a National Higher Diploma in Medical Technology which he completed at the then Technikon Northern Transvaal in 1993.
Other qualifications include diplomas in Human Resource Management, Train-the-Trainer, Adult Basic Education and Training, and Management of Training from the Damelin School of Management, a Bachelor of Technology from Cape Peninsula University of Technology and Master’s bestowed in 2002.
In 2004 he received a PhD from Tshwane University of Technology as well as a Postgraduate Diploma in Higher Education and Training (cum laude) from the University of Fort Hare.
He has successfully supervised 52 BSc Medical Science students, seven Master’s students, 80 Medical Laboratory technicians and 12 Medical Technology interns.
He has served as a reviewer of article drafts in the African Journal for Physical, Health Education, Recreation and Dance.
Story: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com