Local amateur soccer clubs Polokwane Galaxy Football Club, Seshego 11 Football Club, Star Sign Football Club and Lions of Limpopo Football Club will compete in the inaugural Mapungubwe Soccer Challenge at Seshego Stadium on 16 December. The challenge will take place in top four format and the winner will walk away with R35 000 in cash, soccer kit and a floating trophy. The football spectacle will form part of the Mapungubwe Arts and Cultural Festival activities.
Speaking at the launch of the challenge at Peter Mokaba Stadium last Thursday, MEC for Sport, Arts and Culture Thandi Moraka said they had decided to include football in the activities because it plays a role in bringing communities together. “We are expanding our horizons and growing the festival. This is going to be an exciting recipe given that it breaks the hunger for football during the time when our local league will be in recess. This is just a start and this year we are going to treat the tournament as a pilot project,” Moraka said.
She said next year they will include clubs from Sekhukhune, Vhembe, Mopani and Waterberg districts. “This year we opted for four teams from the Capricorn district and these clubs were selected based on their geographical location and the kind of support they have. Our plan is to have a fully-fleshed tournament as of next year which will be inclusive of all teams from our five respective districts. We are going to work closely with the Limpopo Sport Confederation and South African Football Association in Limpopo to achieve this,” concluded Moraka.
Nchabeng Tsebe, Head for the Department of Sport, Arts and Culture urged football supporters to attend in numbers and enjoy the spectacle. “Entrance is free and it will also be a public holiday. We are also calling on families to come and enjoy local football talent with us,” Tsebe said.
The 2019 Mapungubwe Arts Festival themed ‘The melting pot of Africa’s Cultures’ will also feature activities that include cultural carnival which will start at the SABC Park to Jack Botes Hall on 12 December, fashion show and Miss Mapungubwe beauty pageant at Jack Botes Hall on the same day, divas and comedy night at Polokwane Cricket Fields on 13 December. This will be followed by Mapungubwe Arts Festival main event at the old Peter Mokaba Stadium on 14 December while the ultimate horse show and family fun day will be hosted at Polokwane Rugby Fields the following day. Tickets can be purchased at Computicket at a cost of R150 each.
Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com
Thandi Moraka, MEC for Sport, Arts and Culture and Nchabeng Tsebe, Head for the Department with the Mapungubwe Soccer Challenge Trophy.
Nchabeng Tsebe, Department Head of Sport, Arts and Culture urges football supporters to come in numbers and enjoy the spectacle.