Close to 130 athletes of Polokwane Athletic Club (PAC) will line up early morning in Durban to be part of the 94th ultimate human race, the Comrades Marathon in Durban on Sunday.
PAC is the biggest club representing the City of Stars as well as Limpopo with a total of 127 athletes to hit the event by storm.
The club hosted their annual goody bag event on Saturday to bid athletes farewell as their next meeting will only be at the starting point in Durban. During the event athletes received, among others, jackets and energy snacks and drinks in their goody bags.
PAC entered 27 novices for this year’s race with four athletes attempting to complete their 10th Comrades this year.
A total of 34 runners have already completed more than ten races with Pienas Magashule (55) who will be running his 24th Comrades Marathon on Sunday. The oldest athlete, aged 77 years, is Johannes Moshehla with seven Comrades finishes under his belt.
Three years ago he finished second in his age group and has achieved four Bill Rowan and three bronze medals in his Comrades running career. The club’s youngest runner is Monique Jacobs (23) and will attempt to finish the race this race after she failed to do so last year.
Club Chairperson Pieter Pretorius wished all athletes well during his address.
Story and photos: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
Novices Lephale Seshoka, Thuso Nemugumoni, Sllo Nong, Lerato Molomo, Siliki Mabrina, Stefan Olivier, Ellen Moila, Peter Lekolwane, Monique Jacobs and Mapula Maake with Philly Masogo, Riaan de Nysschen, David Sheddon, Caryn Rathmann and Pierre Bloem at the back.
Going full out for silver medals this year are Hennie van Niekerk, Mothopi Malatji, Simon Ngoasheng, Alfred Ngoasheng and Pelly Lamola.
Simon Serage, Pienas Magashule, Nkgatli Mashola, Abopnigo Tjie, Alpheus Moshokwa, Alfred Ngoasheng and Rocky Mojela and Pieter Pretorius, at the back, have all completed more than 10 Comrades marathons.
Seasoned runners Elneth Thulare and Jams Campbell looking forward to their tenth Comrades Marathon.
Alpheus Moshokwa, David Sheddon, Pieter Pretorius, Koena Kganyago and Roan Hiertermann have their sights set on Bill Rowan medals.
Back-to-back athletes are, in front, Shirley Sasebola, Liezel Swanepoel and Tshikani Moyana. In the middle are Morotaba Marapyana, Shakes Phelane, Thabana Mokgohloa, Sibusiso Mahlangu and Rudi Pretorius. Roan Hiestermann is at the back.
Couples running together are Eldene Anderson and Thomas Roos.
Couples running together are Louise Strydom and Riaan de Nysschen.