In order to show its support of athletes from the district and province as such, Capricorn District Municipality (CDM) hosted a Comrades Marathon athletes’ send-off at the new Peter Mokaba Stadium on Saturday.
CDM Head of Marketing and Communications, Phuti Mothapo said in a media release that Executive Mayor John Mpe made special mention of 77-year-old Johannes Mosehla who is one of the oldest Comrades runners from Limpopo and who is going to be one of the passengers on a bus sponsored by CDM. Mosehla hails from Ga-Mogashoa in Sekhu­khune and was a participant in the recently held CDM 4-in-1 Marathon. “I want CDM to add Mr Mosehla as an ambassador of our 4-in-1 Marathon, it is people like him that shows that age is nothing but a number. We should not hide behind age when we have to join in the health journey that can prolong our life expectancy,” Mpe was quoted to have said.
“Each and every one of you must be an ambassador during this Comrades Marathon. I want you to recruit runners from other provinces to come and participate in the CDM 4-in-1 Marathon,” Mpe said. “You are all winners, this is the kind of a lifestyle that we should encourage in our communities.”
“We also have bus drivers who have been consistently participating in the CDM 4-in-1 Marathon, Maropeng Mojela and Lucas Seleka. We extend a word of appreciation to our bus drivers for the work they do for runners on the road. Their main aim is to encourage and this bus driver system is really encouraging as one does run in his or her own pace. It is about reaching the finish line not killing yourselves,” Mpe said.
“We wish you well in this race. This year we have the biggest delegation that we send-off. We will always support you and we thank you for always supporting our programmes. We welcome all athletes of the province in our district. We wish you all the best in your Comrades Marathon journey, bring us something special and you will see what we can do for you, good luck to all of you,” Mpe concluded.
Story: BARRY VILJOEN
>>barryv.observer@gmail.com