The Solly Malatsi (SM) Legacy Foundation continues its programme of supporting community amateur football clubs with soccer kit and balls as part of its commitment to develop grassroots football in Limpopo.
The most recent donation of 15 soccer jerseys and 11 balls was delivered to FC Boss Barcelona from Ga-Matamanyane village in Moletjie. The club caters for aspirant soccer players in the village and surrounds and aims to develop youngsters and shape them into responsible men. Club manager Malesela ‘Boss’ Senyatsi stressed the need for equipment and soccer kit and commented that donations from individuals and organisations such the SM Legacy Foundation boost the boys’ morale. He added that they had approached the foundation for assistance after learning about their commitment towards the development of grassroots football.
“Most players in the club struggle to purchase decent soccer boots but we hope good Samaritans would follow in the foundation’s footsteps and extend a helping hand. The club has been in existence for many years and some of our boys played for professional teams such as Mokopane Sport Academy, Lesedisedi FC and Ray Pillars FC that competed in the then Castle football league,” Senyatsi explained. He repeated their gratitude towards the SM Legacy Foundation and indicated that the jerseys and balls will encourage his players to work hard. Malatsi highlighted that they have collaborated with SportPesa for their #KitsForAfrica initiative to provide soccer kits to community clubs that are in a desperate need of gear for their teams around the province. He further stated that the ultimate goal of the SM Legacy Foundation was to ensure that every aspirant footballer at grassroots level can play the sport wearing proper kit on decent fields for them to enjoy the beautiful game.
“The need for a decent football, and in general sport equipment is massive in rural areas. We need more corporates to get involved in investing in grassroots sport initiatives which can unlock opportunities of hope for youngsters in rural areas so that we don’t lose young people to socials ills. We identified FC Boss Barcelona as a beneficiary because we tracked their work for some time after they approached us for assistance. We believe they represent the vision we have of providing a platform for youngsters to pursue their sport ambitions within an environment that also teaches them to be better men and leaders in their communities,” Malatsi said.
Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
FC Boss Barcelona players show off the soccer kit donated by SM Legacy Foundation. In front are Lesedi Mapela, Selaelo Mothabela, Vincent Lehong and Elvis Molewa. Eliya Setati, Noko Mokwele, Choene Matsi, Gift Mabote, Amogelang Mokwele and Araipha Senyatsi.