Being the head of a learning institution comes with many responsibilities that require one’s undivided attention but this does not stop Siloe School for the Blind principal, Ramasela Lebelo from furthering her education.
Lebelo, who has been a teacher for over 35-years, was recently bestowed a leadership certificate by Symphonia for South Africa for participating in a 12-months Partners for Possibility leadership development programme. The programme, which included flawless consulting and community building methods, started last year May and ended last month. Participants went through a personal development training and coaching to support the development of their schools.
Lebelo stated that she always strive to learn new things, improve her knowledge and leadership skills to be able to run the ship without hindrances. She indicated that the sessions equipped her with a lot of things that include the power of thinking, listening skills and flawless consultation.
She highlighted that she never had a thought of moving to another school because she loves working with visually impaired learners and she has the love for children at heart. She is planning to register for a master’s degree in special needs soon.
“I love education and I don’t think I will stop studying anytime soon. My daughter, Malose will be doing her master’s degree in sociology next year so I am also thinking of registering for the same because I know that she will push me to complete. I am only left with a few years before retirement but this won’t be an excuse for me not to study,” Lebelo stressed.
The programme was informative and educational, she added and reiterated she learnt that technical, interpersonal and flawless skills help one to behave authentically and be successful in working with clients. She went on to reveal that they have also learnt about patience, self-confidence and collaboration. Lebelo encouraged other school principals to consider taking part in such programmes to enhance their skills and knowledge which will in turn make it easier for them to lead their respective institutions in the right direction.
Siloe School for the Blind caters for 120 visually impaired learners and has a staff of 16 educators two of which are visually impaired. Apart from educational activities, the school also participates in extramural activities such as sport, culture and music.
Story and photo: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za