While authorities and residents of the province were still reeling with shock from the news of 42 people having lost their lives in a handful of gruesome accidents on the weekend, Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula on Tuesday stressed the need for harsh action in dealing with non-roadworthy vehicles on the country’s roads, a scourge he described as moving coffins that continue to claim many lives.
He was addressing traffic officials while on a visit to the Department of Transport and Community Safety on Tuesday. Mbalula stated that society must also take responsibility for their non-roadworthy vehicles and stop blaming traffic officers for accidents on the roads. He highlighted that for the nation to win a war against road fatalities and carnage on the roads, motorists must take responsibility by making sure that the cars they drive are roadworthy and that drivers abide by the rules of the road.
“Action has been taken by the authorities and soon we will have a comprehensive report that would highlight what really transpired over the weekend. The law must equally bite and there must be consequences against those who break the law.
There is a bill before President Cyril Ramaphosa that once signed would ensure that if you are drunk or do wrong things behind the wheel, there will be consequences, including demerits. The punishment could also include terminating the driver’s licence of a perpetrator,” Mbalula explained.
He went on to urge traffic officers to harshly deal with motorists who try to bribe officers of the law, adding that the Department of Transport and Community Safety will soon absorb more than 200 qualified traffic officers currently without jobs to increase visibility on the roads. He applauded officers for the good work they are doing and urged them to continue being peace soldiers by bringing perpetrators to book.
Departmental spokesperson Matome Moremi-Taueatsoala on Tuesday confirmed that at least 42 fatalities had been reported from Friday to Monday afternoon. He indicated that the figure could change should any other fatal accidents have occurred during the night (Monday).
Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe referred to some of the fatal accidents that had given rise to statistics. On the R71 at Gravelotte a bus carrying 78 college students from Lephalale to Phalaborwa collided head-on with a double cab bakkie. The driver of the bakkie and his passenger both perished while 78 injured students were taken to the Letaba and Maphutha hospitals for treatment.
Ngoepe indicated that six people burnt to death after a collision between two luxury cars on the R81 outside Giyani early Sunday morning. A Mercedes-Benz and BMW, reportedly travelling in opposite directions, allegedly collided head-on. Both vehicles caught fire in the process causing five occupants of the BMW and the driver of the Mercedes to burn to death.
Later the same day a minibus and a sedan collided between Setlaboswane and Mphane villages in Sekhukhune resulting in the death of three people and 15 being injured.
On Sunday evening the lives of several families were irrevocably turned upside down when 24 people, some reportedly related, were killed in an accident along the R81 between Mooketsi and Giyani.
Ngoepe explained that a bus travelling towards Mooketsi and an oncoming taxi allegedly collided head-on. The accident claimed the lives of 24 persons in the taxi while one sustained serious injuries and was taken to hospital. The bus driver and two of his passengers sustained serious injuries and were also transported to hospital, according to Ngoepe.
The cause of the accident is still being investigated.
Mass memorial, funeral for 24 fatal crash victims
Provincial Government has established a preparatory team to coordinate the funeral arrangements for victims of the fatal crash that claimed the lives of 24 people on the R81 road outside Mooketsi on Sunday.
It was learnt that the team comprises of officials from government departments, the Mopani District Municipality, Greater Letaba Municipality, South African National Taxi Council, businesses, traditional leaders and other stakeholders has been able to identify all the deceased and the exact locations they hail from. Information made available to Polokwane Observer indicated that 19 of the 24 victims were learners from four local high schools while the other four are community members. The deceased are from nine different villages in the Bolobedu cluster with the majority from Ga-Rapitsi village, it was reported. The statement went on to clarify that the ages of the victims are between 13 and 27, 18 being males and six female. The memorial service of the 24 deceased is scheduled for today (Thursday) at Rapitsi Sport Grounds at 12:00 while the mass funeral is set for Saturday at the same venue from 07:00.
The Greater Letaba Mayor Peter Matlou reportedly commended the effort being made by the team while Mopani District Mayor, Pule Shayi has encouraged all the officials and community members involved to continue to work tirelessly all in a bid to ensure that the deceased get a befitting send-off.
Shayi was quoted to have said “As government we appreciate the coordinated effort put in place by the traditional leaders, community structures and our officials in preparing for the memorial and funeral services respectively. We also thank the Provincial and National governments, as we have already seen Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula and the MECs coming down to support the bereaved families.”
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula addresses traffic officials in Polokwane.Photos: Endy Senyatsi
Transport and Community Safety MEC, Dickson Masemola on the podium.
Traffic officials on parade during Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula’s visit to Polokwane on Monday.
The scene of an accident between a bus and minibus which claimed 24 lives.
Two people were killed during a collision between a bus and bakkie.