Elelwani Muthivhi, a PhD candidate in the Department of Psychology at the University of Limpopo (UL), has become the first UL student to be certified as a psychological autopsy investigator.
Muthivhi, a registered counsellor and researcher at the UL Department of Community Safety and Liaison was awarded the certificate for psychological autopsy in 2018 following a compulsory face-to-face training with the American Association of Suicidology at the Chicago School of Professional Psychology in Washington DC.
Muthivhi is set to attend the 53rd American Association of Suicidology annual conference in April 2020 at Portland Oregon in the United States of America.
The association is a leader in the advancement of scientific and programmatic efforts in the prevention of suicide through research, education and training as well as the development of standards, resources and support for survivors.
Every year the association provides training to delegates who are in possession of master’s degrees in the behavioural health fields. In 2017, Muthivhi was the only African amongst a cohort of 14 delegates from the United States of America selected to receive training.
She conducted a psychological autopsy study and submitted a case report that demonstrated her competencies in the interpretation of the findings, from protocol-based interviews and archived records.
Her PhD study is on “Psychological Autopsy of male perpetrator and female victim of intimate partner murder-suicide in rural community in Limpopo Province”
Muthivhi was quoted to have said she believes that her behavioural science background and 10 years’ experience in the research field as well as her current PhD study were highly instrumental for qualifying to attend the training. “My PhD study provides insights into the psychological intent and motives of perpetrators and victims of partner murder-suicide; this includes multiple trajectories, that is, psychological, behavioural, environmental, cultural and historical contexts that might have contributed to the death of a perpetrator and victim of intimate partner murder-suicide and the role played by a perpetrator and victim in effecting own death. This study is critical for the South African society.”
Muthivhi argues that to date there is no psychological autopsy study reflecting psychological intent, motive and the role played by the deceased in effecting their own death, particularly in Limpopo Province.
“It is from this basis that I developed interest in understanding the intention and motives by people who kill themselves and those who kill others and subsequently end their lives,” Muthivhi said. She further stated that the study will help decision makers to develop awareness campaigns on psychological intent and motives associated with intimate partner murder suicides in an effort to curb the trend.”
Congratulating Muthivhi, Satsope Maoto, Executive Dean-Faculty of Humanities said: “As a Faculty, we would like to congratulate Doctor-to-be, Elelwani Muthivhi, from the University of Limpopo, for being the first South African to qualify as a Psychological Autopsy Investigator. We are looking forward to her final research product that would definitely contribute to new knowledge. It is only through hard work, commitment and sleepless nights that one could produce quality contribution. Our hearts would always be with her as she proceeds with her research journey. We also commend in advance the Department of Psychology, particularly the supervisor, for hard work and for always being there for the students. In Tshivenda we say ‘mishumo i adiambela’. In Xitsonga, ‘mintirho ya vulavula’ translated in English as ‘deeds speak’. Congratulations!.”
Story: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com