Premier Stan Mathabatha has, in a press release issued by his spokesperson, Kenny Mathiva this orning (Monday) expressed his shock at the death of 24 persons in a single accident on the province’s roads. The deceased were underway from Youth Day celebrations in Polokwane.
“We are saddened and on behalf of Government send our heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims,” the statement read.
Meanwhile Police in Limpopo are investigating the causes of three fatal accidents on the province’s roads that claimed 32 lives on the long weekend.
Police in Modjadjiskloof outside Tzaneen are investigating a case of culpable homicide following the taxi accident which occurred along the R81 road between Mooketsi and Giyani yesterday (Sunday).
Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe reported that a bus and a taxi travelling in opposite directions allegedly collided head-on. “The bus was coming from Giyani towards Mooketsi and the taxi was coming from Mooketsi towards Giyani. During this fatal crash, 24 passengers in the taxi died instantly while one sustained serious injuries and was taken to hospital. The bus driver and two of his passengers sustained serious injuries and were also transported to hospital. The process of identifying the deceased is still unfolding. The cause of this collision is the subject of ongoing Police investigations,” a statement issued by Ngoepe this morning (Monday) read.
A statement issued by Ngoepe on Saturday informed that an accident along the R71 road between Tzaneen and Phalaborwa on Saturday morning had claimed the lives of two persons while 78 were injured and transported to nearby Letaba and Maphuta hospitals.
Ngoepe said it is alleged that the bus, travelling towards Phalaborwa, transported 78 college students from Lephalale and collided head-on with a double cab bakkie coming from the direction of Tzaneen.
The deceased were identified as MF Burger, 36, and JH Louis, 66, both from Phalaborwa. The cause of the crash is being investigated.
Police in in Giyani are inv death of six persons in a horror crash on the R81 between Giyani and Polokwane near Dingamazi village in which five persons burnt to death in a BMW sedan. The BMW and a Mercedes Benz travelling in opposite directions allegedly collided head-on after which the BMW caught fire. The driver of the Mercedes-Benz also died. According to Ngoepe the deceased have not been identified and details of the vehicles are being circulated to assist in the process. Anyone who can assist police in the identification of the deceased, may go to Giyani Police Station. The cause of the accident is also still being investigated, according to Ngoepe.
MEC Department of Transport and Community Safety, Dickson Masemola has send words of condolences to the families of those who perished and wished a speedy recovery to those who are receiving medical attention in the different hospitals.
Masemola urged road users to exercise caution on the roads. “We are warning with strongest possible terms to road traffic infringers to know that the rule of law is sacrosanct and that adherence of provisions of the law is non-negotiable. The province cannot continue to afford more losses of life, one loss of life is one too many. We have, as the department indicated that during this long weekend it expected that we will have increased traffic volumes on our roads and much more vigilance is sought as we travel to various destinations,” Masemola was quoted to have said in a media statement.
Story: Herbert Rachuene