Seshego Stadium is set to host the national indigenous games set for 22 to 28 September and the event promises to be a showcase of all that is truly South African in games, entertainment, fashion, arts and crafts as well as food.
The nine identified games that representatives of the nine provinces will compete in are interwoven by a common thread of being shared among their different communities.
The games promises to boast participation of the Limpopo community who are being called to come in numbers, adorned in their cultural attire, to be part of the Street Carnival planned to for 22 September from Ngoako Ramatlhodi Sports Complex and ending off at Seshego Stadium.
The carnival will be followed by the opening festival pencilled for 23 September which will see South African artists entertaining the crowds with much loved and well-known traditional music.
Daily games fixtures on the programme for 23 to 27 September from 08:00 till 16:00 include Lintonga, Morabaraba, Ncuva, Kgati, Driestokkies, Jukskei, Diketo, Kho-Kho and Dibeke.
An Arts and Crafts sellers’ market will be at the heart of the exhibition area of the stadium providing arts and crafts producers with the opportunity to sell and showcase the work of their hands. In addition, African fashion designers will be offered the Fashion Ramp to showcase their clothing with a chance to win also win prizes to further their craft.
Thandi Moraka, MEC for Sport, Arts and Culture said they were looking to host the games for the fifth time. “We are looking forward to showcase our cultural diversity in the province. These Indigenous Games are highly important because they help us foster our cultural relations as Africans.
“We are ready to host all nine provinces,” Moraka said during the provincial indigenous games held at Polokwane rugby field on Saturday.
Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com
Thabo Molalo and Doreen Mokofane showcase their lintonga skills during the provincial indigenous games held at Polokwane rugby field on Saturday.