A lack of visibility, slow or no response from Police and the presence of prostitutes and brothels were among the issues highlighted by residents of Ivy Park and Penina Park during a second community meeting of its kind hosted in the city on Tuesday evening.
Community members were given the opportunity to address dignitaries Transport and Community Safety MEC Dickson Masemola, Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba as well as ward councillors and Community Safety Forum (CPF) representatives.
The lack of visibility and response by Police in these two suburbs were emphasised by a resident who felt compelled to establish his own patrol group consisting of himself and a few other residents in the area. He made it clear that patrol vehicles were not seen in the area and when called the Police never pitch.
A resident who supported the claims said communities are continuously reminded not to take the law into their own hands but are sometimes left with no other option only to face arrest themselves.
The presence of brothels and prostitutes were highlighted as worrying issues because nothing was seemingly being done to get rid of the ladies of the night, especially in the Ivy Dale area. A female resident expressed her embarrassment when, while driving in the area, being confronted by the reality of women next to roads soliciting business by flashing their private parts at passing motorists. Another resident insisted that brothels and prostitution are instigators for drug-related crimes as well as the possible human trafficking.
Operations between Polokwane and Westen­burg Police Stations were also addressed by residents who complained that when a matter in Ivy Park has to be reported to the Police one has to drive all the way to Westenburg Police Station. Residents mentioned that on several occasions they were refused to be assisted at Polokwane station when a matter does not fall under their jurisdiction.
Responding to the issues Polokwane Community Policing Forum (CPF) Exco Chairperson Dawid Botes reminded residents that the meeting was being held to establish the gaps in the area that are comfortably utilised by criminals to terrorise the community.
Polokwane Station Commander Gift Makubele indicated that no visibility creates a gap for criminals and that patrols in the areas will be intensified immediately. He further remarked that he as well as employees of Polo­kwane Municipality monitor the areas known to be a basis for prostitution on a daily basis.
Ledwaba thanked community members for their input and emphasised that no one can be refused to be assisted at a Police station – even when it is not in the station’s jurisdiction. He made it clear that one can even report a Polokwane case in Bela-Bela as the station must register the case and only then it will be referred to Polokwane.
Masemola was last to take to the podium and urged community members to work together and to conduct similar meetings in his absence to discuss issues in the area and to refer it to the Police. He added that residents should acquaint themselves with the first point of contact in any situation and to get organised by joining crime combating structures such as the CPF.
He highlighted that the department and the Police will continue in their endeavours to mobilise communities in the fight against crime. He emphasised the importance of residents reporting any incident or suspicious activities in their areas as most of the Police’s success result from valuable information received from the community.
Story/photos: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba addressing residents of Ivy Park and Penina Park.
Polokwane CPF Exco Chairperson Dawid Botes.