The first round of the Solly Malatsi (SM) Legacy Foundation top 32 soccer tournament saw some intense contests when football teams battled it out for a spot in the last 16 on the dusty fields of Madiga Junior Chiefs and Vultures in Ga-Dikgale on the weekend.
The best performance of the weekend went to Letona FC for their gutsy display in fighting back from trailing 1-0 against the ever impressive AS Roma to eventually win on penalties in the biggest upset of the first round. Ndengeza FC sent a strong message to all the participants by smashing a hapless Lebowa Grasshoppers 5-2. In a replay of last year’s final, defending champions Makotopong Giant Aces got the defence of their title underway with a clinical 3-0 victory.
Tjale Yellow Tigers who were disqualified last year for unsporting behaviour caused the second upset of the tournament by coming back from 2-0 to force Makakanka Rekaofela FC into penalties and ended up winning the match 4-3. In one of the much anticipated matches of the tournament, the newly promoted ABC Motsepe League side Makotopong Brazil pipped their home-boys and arch rivals, Makgato FC 1-0.
SM Legacy Foundation Chairman Solly Malatsi said “We are satisfied with the first round of the tournament despite all the challenges we faced with using two different fields and eight matches playing at the same time over two days. The turnout of fans was incredible and we would like to thank all the teams for bringing out the flair of Mzansi’s football which the fans enjoyed.”
The last 16 matches will be played at Madiga Junior Chiefs sport field this weekend and the fixtures are as follows:
Saturday
Mahwelereng vs Letona – 09:30.
Tjale Yellow Tigers vs Tau-Tau – 11:30.
Makotopong Giant Aces vs Ndengeza – 13:30.
Flora Park Juventus vs Super Eagles – 15:30.
Sunday
Makeketela Liverpool vs Sebayeng Big4 – 09:30.
Mashashane PSG vs Rembulane Freedom Fighters – 11:30.
Blue Birds vs Limpopo City – 13:30.
Sekgopo City Rocks vs Makotopong Brazil – 15:30.
Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
SM Legacy Foundation Chairman Solly Malatsi congratulates Man of the Match, Chuene Mokonyama of Mashashane PSG.
Gift Khangala (blue) of Rembulani Freedom Fighters protects the ball from Matsobane Matlatji of SuperSport.
Mahlallane Peace Lovers soccer club player Sammy Dikgale dribbles Tumelo Makgaba of Flora Park Juventus.
Mahlatse Leso (white) of SuperSport football club runs with the ball at a high speed while chased by Tshepho Masipa of Rembulani Freedom Fighters.
Frank Mathole of Flora Park Juventus football club has full control of the ball.