Police have launched a massive manhunt for two unknown suspects who allegedly attacked and raped two learners, aged 16 and 18, at Vuwani last Tuesday.
Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe indicated that three learners were walking home from school at about 16:15 when two men armed with pangas accosted and threatened them.
The learners were ordered to follow the men to a secluded spot in a nearby bush where the suspects allegedly took turns raping two of the three girls before fleeing the scene.
The girls ran home and reported the matter to their elders who immediately summoned the Police, according to Ngoepe. Two cases of rape are being investigated.
Democratic Alliance (DA) Leader in Limpopo Jacques Smalle in a press statement indicated that the girls were taken to hospital where they received treatment and counselling.
“Vuwani has been a hotspot for community protests and violent crimes for more than three years now. These girls live 3 km from school and because of the ongoing safety concerns in the area the Department of Education has been requested by the school to provide assistance for transport for the last 3 years but to no avail,” Smalle was quoted to have said.
He added that during the 2017/2018 financial year the department had a saving of more than R22 million on scholar transport and yet no effort was made to assist the learners in this unstable area.
“Children who walk long distances to school daily face real and present danger that can strip them of their identity, dignity and possibly their lives. But they are avoidable dangers. Safe and reliable scholar transport would allow learners to be protected from crime and give them much needed peace of mind.”
Smalle indicated that Education MEC Polly Boshielo would be approached with a request that crime hotspots be identified and learners living in such areas be accommodated with scholar transport regardless of how far they live from school.
The Police requested anyone with information to contact investigating officer Richard Boshomane on 079 894 5501 or report to the nearest Police station.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com