A masked gang of five – who reportedly never remove their makeshift balaclavas or woollen gloves when they get to work – is suspected of hitting on defenceless victims in upper-town Polokwane, ransacking homes for hours and getting away with vast sums in valuables and bank cards for on-the-spot ATM withdrawals.
The past week two residents who fell victim to attackers in separate incidents proving the same modus operandi within a span of ten days and committed within a geographical range of four street blocks, shared details of their ordeals with Polokwane Observer. John le Cordeur and Jay Jay Mavanyisi told corroborating stories of physical assault during attacks in the beginning of July and mid-month.
An interview with 63-year-old Mavanyisi, Chairperson of the African National Congress’s Polokwane Sub-Region who was overpowered while asleep on 12 July before being held at gunpoint for about two hours, led to Polokwane Observer meeting with 83-year-old Le Cordeur, a pensioner who was held captive and tortured for an estimated three hours in his house nearby on the evening of 2 July.
Mavanyisi attack
Mavanyisi said five masked burglars gained access to the family home in Hoog Street, through a window and door in turn after apparently breaking the lock to a small gate facing the street. He had been alone at home as his wife and daughter were away for the weekend, he explained.
He recalled three of the five robbers who conversed in Sepedi being armed with a revolver and firearms that resembled service pistols, continuously having their faces covered with what he likened to knitted caps with holes cut into it and keeping woollen gloves on throughout.
According to Mavanyisi one of the robbers removed his pyjamas, whereupon his wrists and ankles were bound together with curtain tiebacks and a shoelace and he was forced to remain on the bed covered in a blanket at times to prevent him from seeing what was going on. Already early on he was punched in the stomach and one of the robbers removed the bullets from the chamber of his firearm to prove it was loaded, he recalled.
During the incident he was forced to disclose the pin numbers for his debit and credit cards and while three of the criminals continued ransacking the house and adjacent flatlet, two of their fellow-gang members left the scene with his bank cards to go and make ATM cash withdrawals. From the ATM the two suspects were in contact with their fellow-gangsters over the phone, resulting in him receiving a blow against the side of his head when less than the expected amount was received at the machine, he explained. As he struggled with increasing the limit on a credit card via a banking application on his wife’s laptop due to a system failure, he was hit against the back of the head again with the butt of a gun, he remembered. Mavanyisi pointed out that all available cash funds were withdrawn and that subsequent transactions were made at a sports tavern in Ladanna four times during the course of events at his house.
Apart from the money withdrawn with his bank cards, the thugs took off with a small amount in cash from his wallet and a list of possessions that include cell phones, television sets, his exclusive gold electric guitar, music systems and sound equipment, a recording device, a charger for a DNA therapy massager, clothing, pairs of running shoes, costly jewellery for his and his wife’s upcoming anniversary for which he had been saving up that were collected, fragrances, meat from the freezer as well as whiskey and beers, he indicated.
The noise from the ongoing movement in the house settled around 02:00, whereupon he was unsuccessful in his attempts to break free but managed to press a panic button in the room. Only later he achieved untying himself. Help arrived at around 02:45.
Mavanyisi stressed that he was “more than terrified”, sketching a situation in which any of the robbers could get angry and pull a trigger. However, he said he was convinced they were not going to kill him, but just hurt him. Mavanyisi, who was of the opinion that he cooperated well with his attackers, argued that usually robbers first wounded a victim in a limb if they intended to kill.
“I never had such a long prayer in my life. When they weren’t talking to me I was praying.”
Le Cordeur attack
Le Cordeur’s narration takes one back to around 21:30 on 2 July when his two rescue dogs became unsettled and as he opened the back door to let them out he was accosted by five excessively aggressive armed men, all small in stature. Four wore woollen caps and all gloves.
By then they had already attempted breaking into the house through a door leading into the passage, it was later discovered. From his recollection, he said, he had noticed firearms and what he described as a hunting knife carried by the unmasked robber.
He said they had forced him into the passage, removed his shoes, tied his wrists with shoelaces and his ankles with neck ties but during the course of proceedings the shoelaces that came undone were replaced with a wire coat hanger.
According to Le Cordeur he was dragged up and down the passage and also into the main bedroom as the robbers proceeded to ransack the house. At times he was forced onto the floor, lying on his stomach with his hands behind his back, it was learnt. He too had to provide pin numbers for credit cards with which withdrawals had been made from two ATMs in the area while some of the robbers remained in the house.
He was beaten several times, slapped and kicked in the head and face when looking at the thugs or not responding, he explained. The robbers addressed him in English and didn’t speak to one another in his presence.
The gangsters, Le Cordeur pointed out, left with an amount of cash from the ATM transactions and what he had in the house, a laptop, a television set, a microwave, a music system and speakers, cameras, his late wife’s jewellery, his watches, clothes and shoes, mattresses and linen as well as food items either being eaten there or taken away.
Le Cordeur’s SUV that was stolen in the process was found in Zone 8 in Seshego by Police who were contacted about an abandoned vehicle eight days later.
He spoke of reported subsequent attempted transactions at a sports bar in Ladanna – different from the one mentioned by Mavanyisi – some time after the cards were stopped following the robbery.
The criminals left around 00:30 and once he managed to get up and reach the back door to call for help from the neighbours after a long struggle he had been tied up for five hours. He was left bruised and had lost feeling in his right hand, which is only starting to recover.
Le Cordeur responded saying that an insurance claim would partly cover the losses of things of sentimental value, but that the worst part was that there was no pleasure in shopping for something one didn’t want to lose or replace.
He concluded with the reference to the shock and the trauma caused by an attack to which there was nothing subtle about. “They didn’t silently burgle and took their time.” It left him feeling somewhat helpless because of being unable to do anything.
He commended the Police for their service and thanked the community for their support.
Investigations into both cases continue.
Story & photo: YOLANDE NEL
>>observer.yolande@gmail.com