The second round of the Solly Malatsi (SM) Legacy Foundation top 32 knock-out challenge over the weekend separated the pretenders from the contenders for the crown that will be won at the end of the tournament.
Letona FC continued their impressive form by blasting four goals past Mahwelereng FC’s goalkeeper who was let down by a series of defensive errors.
The much anticipated fixture between Tau Tau FC and Tjale Yellow Tigers failed to live up to the pre-match hype.Both teams were lethargic, disjointed and playing without any real purpose. The only shining feature was the Man of the Match winning outstanding performance of Tau Tau FC’s Tumelo Maradona who scored his team’s two goals.
The fixture between defending champions Makotopong Giant Aces and Limpopo ABC Motsepe League side Ndengeza FC, produced the match of the weekend. Giant Aces scored first and looked to be on track to the quarter-finals until Ndengeza FC’s undying fighting spirit was rewarded with an equalizing goal in the final minute of the game. Super Eagles’ matched Flora Park Juventus aided by some heroic saves by goalkeeper, Kwena Matiba. Sebayeng Big 4 match temperament helped them recover from trailing 1-0 against Makeketela Liverpool to equalize in referees’ optional time and ultimately winning 5-4 on penalties. Rembuluwani Freedom Fighters courageously fought back from conceding an early goal to find their equalizer through fullback Ballo Rathumbu that delivered them to penalties. The youngsters were clinical on converting all their penalties while Mashashane PSG missed one penalty to lose the match. Limpopo City lost by a solitary goal to Makokonong Blue Birds whose defender crushed every attack launched by the skilled City players.
Makotopong Brazil showed their class by crushing Sekgopo City Rocks 4-0 with their lethal striker Steven Mokgohlo scoring a brace. Brazil, Juventus and Blue Birds are the only teams yet to concede a goal in open play.
SM Legacy Foundation Chairman Solly Malatsi said: “The level of competitiveness this weekend was so tough that it is impossible to establish who the favourites are. All these teams have reinforced their teams which shows that they are not leaving anything for chance. As the organisers we are humbled by the incredible support from all the hundreds of fans who have been filling the field to enjoy the entertaining football at display. We are proud that these tournament is giving local small businesses a major boost in sales from the soccer teams and fans.” See fixtures on website.
Saturday’s quarter-finals fixtures:
• Letona vs Sebayeng Big 4 – 09:30.
• Tau-Tau vs Flora Park Juventus – 11:30.
• Rembuluwani Freedom Fighters vs Makotopong Brazil – 13:30.
• Makokonong Blue Birds vs Ndengeza – 15:30.
Story: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
 
Super Eagles player Kwena Matiba scoops Man of the Match award.