The recent suspension of Polokwane Community Policing Forum Chairperson Dawid Botes as well as allegations of certain sectors not working together and personal vendettas against certain members, all form part of ongoing investigations into the reported instability of the crime fighting structure.
Provincial Community Policing Forum (CPF) Chairperson, Frans Kgasago made it clear this week that looming issues within the structure will no longer be tolerated and that investigations into certain allegations have already been launched.
Kgasago who also serves as National Deputy Secretary General of the Community Policing Board remarked that issues within the CPF have been looming since 2016 but had stabilised as time went by until late last year.
“A meeting attended by, among others, Polokwane station management, the cluster chairperson and management, sector commanders and members of the station forum was held on 16 August. During this meeting allegations of misconduct against Botes was listed and due to the seriousness of the allegations we (the provincial board) had no choice but to suspend him pending investigations into the allegations,” Kgasago said. He did not want to elaborate on the accusations as they are still being investigated. As per the CPF Constitution Botes will be asked to answer to the allegations.
It was learnt that Trevor van Niekerk was currently acting as Polokwane CPF Chairperson.
Kgasago also did not elaborate on the issues of certain sectors not working together with sector managers.
“These allegations are also already being investigated and whatever issues that will further arise will also be addressed. We are also aware of personal vendettas against certain members which will no longer be tolerated,” he emphasised.
He concluded saying that his dream is to see a good relationship between all stakeholders of the CPF in the efforts to fight crime. “I am meaning business. There is no time to waste. We must make sure that the community feels and is safe.”
Story/photo: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com