Advertorial>>
For parents considering enrolling their children at Meridian Northern Academy, 14 September 2019 is a date not to be missed. Meridian Northern Academy, a school managed by Curro, will be hosting a school Open Day coinciding with a special Family Heritage Carnival.
Ranked as the Top Independent School in Limpopo in 2018, Meridian Northern Academy is a co-ed, single-medium (English) school, where learners write the National Senior Certificate (NSC) examination in matric. Meridian Northern Academy is open to learners from Grade R to Grade 12, with boarding school opportunities available to those in outlying areas. The school has performed exceptionally well academically, having produced the top 3 academic performers in the NSC category for Curro’s class of 2018.
Learners at Meridian Northern Academy are provided with not only a quality education, but also with a unique opportunity to flourish into leaders. Indeed, with Curro’s countrywide #Learners2Leaders campaign, schools are encouraging the development of leaders who will play an important role in their wider communities. This is done to create well-rounded learners who are not only able to face an increasingly challenging global future but can also contribute meaningfully to South African society.
Open Day and Heritage Carnival
The Meridian Northern Academy Open Day on 14 September promises a number of not-to-be missed opportunities. Starting at 9am, parents and prospective learners are able to tour the Primary and High school campuses, interact with teachers and current learners, and see how Meridian Northern Academy operates. Most importantly, both the Meridian Northern Academy Primary and High School campuses offer a 100% discount on the enrolment fee for learners enrolling on the day. Parents who make use of this opportunity will be entered into a lucky draw to win an amazing full-year bursary for their child.
The Family Heritage Carnival kicks off early at the High School Campus, with a relaxing 5km fun-run to open proceedings. Those wanting to either run or walk the course can register from 06:00 for R30, with the race starting at 07:00.
During the course of the day, there will be loads of entertainment on offer. For the kids, a special playground will be available, which will include a face painting area and jumping castles. Meridian Northern Academy learners will be presenting a memorable Heritage Day showcase, while visitors can enter a raffle with great prizes on offer, such as smartphones and tablets. Food stands will provide delicious meals, while musical performances from learners are set to brighten up the festivities. The Festival officially comes to close at 16:00 in the afternoon.
The Meridian Northern Academy Open Day and Family Heritage Festival will be held on 14 September 2019 at Northern Academy Primary School Campus: Bushveld Lifestyle Village, Romulus Drive, Bendor; and the High School Campus situated at 243 Suid Street, Flora Park, Polokwane.
For more information about Meridian Northern Academy or the Family Heritage Carnival open day, please visit www.curro.co.za, or contact the school on 015 296 3570.