On Friday the University of Limpopo (UL) inaugurated that Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma as its new Chancellor.
She will serve the university for the next five years, until 2024. Dlamini Zuma is the first female and second Chancellor since the name change in 2005, taking over from Dr Reuel Khoza who was at the helm for two five-year terms between 2007 and 2017.
She is a member of ANC Women’s League National Executive Committee, member of the Socialist International Commission on Climatic Change and a Co-convenor of the National Progressive Women’s Movement of South Africa from 2006.
Dlamini Zuma is a recipient of an Honorary Doctorate of Law from the then University of Natal in 1995, Honorary Doctorate of Law from University of Bristol in 1996, Doctor of medical degree (Honoris Causa) from University of Transkei in 1997, Honorary Degree from Medunsa in 1999, Tobacco Free World Award (WHO) on 17 May 1999, Women Who Make A Difference Award from International Women’s Forum (IWF) in 2002, Tribute Achievers Awards, Premium Award on NEPAD from Tribute Magazine in 2002, and Grand Maitre de L’orde National (Orde National de Mali) of the Republic of Mali on 7 May 2002.
She was Minister of Home Affairs of the Republic of South Africa from 11 May 2009 until September 2012. Before this appointment, she served as Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1999 to 2009. She is currently the Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs.
In her acceptance speech, Dlamini Zuma said it was with great appreciation and humility that she accepted the honour of the Chancellorship of an institution that has provided South Africa’s body politic, private sector and academia with many leaders. “I am humbled that the council and the greater community of the University of Limpopo decided to bestow such an honour upon me, a rural African woman, during its 60th anniversary. I should also from the onset thank the outgoing Chancellor, Dr Reuel Khoza, who has laid a solid foundation for us to build on.”
She further remarked that she could not speak of the illustrious 60-year history of the University of Limpopo, without referencing to Onkgopotse Tiro.
Tiro was a student activist and black consciousness militant murdered by the apartheid state.
He was expelled from the then University of the North in 1972 for his political activities. At university he had become an active member of the South African Student Organisation out of which the Black Consciousness Movement grew. After his expulsion from the University of the North in 1972, following his scathing critique of the Bantu Education Act of 1953, he went on to teach history at Morris Isaacson High School near and around Central Western Jabavu in Soweto in 1973.
She said as a true Pan Africanist Tiro would have therefore frowned upon the recent violence meted against foreign nationals in the recent spate of xenophobic attacks. “He would have understood as Kwame Nkrumah did that our freedom was meaningless so long as our continent remained the home of suffering. Tiro would have reminded us of the words of Nkrumah that critics of African unity often refer to the differences in culture, language and ideas this is true, but the essential fact remains that we are all Africans and have a common interest in the independence of Africa.”
Following recent cases of femicide as well as abuse and crimes against women and children in the country Dlamini Zuma called for men to stand up and emulate the type of man Tiro was by being true and honest, and not fearing to call sin by its right name. “Until society and all men shun those who abuse, beat up and rape our women and children the problem will remain in our midst. We must not tolerate or create any spaces for men who do such. The public service must fire all those that have been found to conduct such heinous acts and our criminal justice system ought to take harsher measures such as not providing bail to those who have been accused of rape and femicide,” she said.
In his valedictory address, former Chancellor UL Chancellor, Dr Reuel Khoza said his tenure as Chancellor of the University of Limpopo made him fundamentally know himself for the first time, yet acknowledging that young student Turfloop knew the man before he emerged into the world. “This university, then University of the North, gave me a sound and solid foundation during the years 1970-1974. My study of History, Comparative Linguistics and, in particular Psychology, provided a great launch pad for a career that was to prove to be as diverse as it has been rewarding.”
He said he was proud to have the honour of succeeding iconic President Nelson Mandela as Chancellor of the University. “I am delighted and honoured too, to be succeeded by Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, veteran of the struggle for our county’s liberation, liberator of myriads from suicide by smoking, leading exponent for healthy living, accomplished pan-African leader in practice at the helm of our apex continental organisation, the African Union Champion of Women and Children’s rights, accomplished political leader.”
“I wish her the best, may she together with institutional leadership of the University, Council and Senate, Academic and Administrative staff, as well as the students, catapult this great University to loftier heights of academic and administrative excellence,” Khoza concluded.
Congratulating Dlamini Zuma UL Student Representative Council (SRC), President Njabulo Mkhonto, said they were humbled by the decision of the university to install her as their Chancellor.
Mkhonto said we have installed a true leader of unmatchable credentials, a discipled leader of the African National Congress and a well-rounded activist by all measure. “We chose a brave leader who confronted the tobacco industry when men were scared. It is a fact that Mama Nkosazana’s fearless fight against the tobacco industry was never given full recognition. Therefore, it will be befitting for the university to consider naming the school of medicine after her.”
Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com
Dr Nokosazana Dlamini Zuma, Chancellor of UL.
Dr Reuel Khoza, former Chancellor of the University of Limpopo during his address.
Prof Mahlo Mokgalong, Vice Chancellor and Principal of the University of Limpopo and Dr Nokosazana Dlamini-Zuma new UL Chancellor.
Prof Mahlo Mokgalong, Vice-Chancellor and Principal of University of Limpopo and Mr Pandelani Nefolovhodwe Chairperson of the University of Limpopo Council share a light moment with Dr Nokosazana Dlamini Zuma, new Chancellor.
Jacob Zuma, former President of South Africa was among the dignitaries.
Bishop Barnabas Lekganyane, Leader of the Zion Christian Church and Archbishop Thabo Makgoba, Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town.
Njabulo Mkhonto, UL SRC President.
Dr Nokosazana Dlamini-Zuma, UL Chancellor and Mahlo Mokgalong, Vice Chancellor and Principal.
Premier Stan Mathabatha and Jossey Buthane, EFF Provincial Leader share a light moment during the celebrations.