Residents who prefer purchasing fresh products at an affordable price took advantage of the grand opening of Boxer Polokwane 2 last Thursday as they flooded the store at 97 President Paul Kruger Street to cash in on the endless special offers.
Boxer is on a winning streak as the company is set to have 23 stores in Limpopo including the two other outlets that are expected to open soon in Mankweng and Thohoyandou. Before the outlet could open its doors for the public that morning, residents were already outside the premises patiently waiting. Some could however barely contain their excitement and once the ribbon had been cut made their way into the spacious shop and were off to see what the well-stocked shelves held in store.
From the day of the opening until this coming Sunday, customers are being treated to Double Cash Back sales featuring combos such as 10kg potatoes, 7kg butternut, 7kg onions and 5kg carrots for only R120, five frozen whole chickens plus 500g soup combo was selling for R199 while 5kg Boxer Saver Fry plus a 400g spice bowl cost R149 per combo. Boxer Polokwane 2 offers shoppers over 1 000 m² of shopping space and has ten tills to serve its customers. Inside the store Boxer is bringing its famous fresh service departments such as a butchery offering a wide range of both fresh cuts of meats and frozen prepacks while the bakery offers shoppers delicious confectionery favourites with the fruit and vegetables section offering a range of seasonal fresh produce.
The store also has a money kiosk where customers can pay for electricity, play the lotto, pay DStv bill and other EasyPay bills. There is also a Nedbank ATM, a TymeBank Kiosk, a Nedbank in-store bank and a Hollard Insurance cubicle. The outlet offers Boxer’s Cash Club Savings Card which helps shoppers save and earn extra money on top of their savings. Social grants beneficiaries can safely collect their monies at any Boxer till point during South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) payout periods.
Boxer Superstore Regional Manager Magic Mohau indicated that they saw a need to open another store in the city after realising that residents prefer their products. He further highlighted that setting up and establishing the outlet created 68 new jobs and that customers can expect nothing but good service from the well-trained personnel. Mohau added that customers love Boxer combos because they help them save a lot of money.
“This second outlet in the city will assist shoppers to never pay more than the Boxer price. Our store is the fastest growing company in Limpopo and we are going to open two more outlets in the province with the first one set to be opened in Thohoyandou tomorrow (Friday) while the second one is scheduled to operate in Mankweng from 27 September. We are going to have 23 stores in Limpopo after opening these two. One thing I love the most about Boxer is that there are always specials on offer. This is one store that has the interests of its customers at heart and we always give back. I am happy with the support we get from our customers and promise to return the favour by having many specials,” Mohau explained. One of the customers, who had a shopping basket full of groceries, Selby Khalo informed Polokwane Observer that Boxer Superstore was his favourite. He said he liked the combos the most because they are affordable and always fresh as compared to those in other stores. Khalo urged residents who like fresh products at an affordable price to visit their nearest Boxer store.
The shop also features a money kiosk where customers can access certain basic banking services.
Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za


Regional trainee Patrick Mathunzi, regional manager Magic Mohau, general manager Innocent Zukasi, branch manager Tshepo Skhosana and assistant manager Rifus Choma cut the ribbon to mark the official opening of Boxer 2 Polokwane.
Boxer Polokwane 2 employees ahead of the official opening.
Customers at the newly opened Boxer 2 Polokwane.
Customer Selby Khalo recommends Boxer products.
Portia Choma ready to assist customers at the fruits and veggies section.
Albert Monyepao and Evah Baloyi ensure that the Just Baked shelf is full of fresh good.
Boxer Polokwane 2 assistant manager Rifus Choma.
Employees deliver a great performance as they welcome customers to new Boxer Polokwane 2.
Visit Boxer Polokwane 2 for fresh products.