One of Transport and Community Safety MEC Dickson Masemola’s crime meetings with concerned parties across the city has reporatedly resulted in threats against the life of a Westenburg resident who was outspoken about leaders allegedly seen to be involved in drug peddling in the neighbourhood during last Thursday evening’s meeting.
Without identifying those implied, Percy Adams used the podium offered during the community meeting that evening to express concern about leaders from Westenburg perceived to be responsible for drug deals in their area. On Sunday Polo­kwane Observer was alerted about a message referring to the matter raised in the meeting which circulated on the Whats­App group of a ruling party structure within Ward 19, and on Monday about Adams having been informed about ensuing threats against his life since Friday.
At deadline time Adams indicated to Polokwane Observer that already on the weekend a grouping that had ganged up against him showed up at his house, but that the situation was defused. Thereafter he had repeatedly been warned about an individual who was present during last Thursday evening’s meeting allegedly busy “organising a grave for me”.
Adams explained that he condemned drugs that killed kids and that were used prior to the commission of crimes and in the past had shared his sentiments with the particular person.
While at Westenburg Police Station around mid-morning on Tuesday he telephonically informed Polokwane Observer that he had gone to open a criminal case but that he was told that the Police could not do so for no direct threat had been made. He believed the legitimacy of the threat against his life and referred to yet another warning against “something bad” going to be done to him. The warning came as he was on the way to the Police station yesterday (Wednesday) morning, he said.
During the community meeting a resident named Westenburg, Nirvana and Ivy Park as the biggest sources of drugs in the city. It was evident that apart from drugs gangsterism, shebeens, the presence of undocumented foreigners and visibility of the Police and the Community Policing Forum (CPF) contribute to the biggest headaches in Ward 19.
By raising the issue of gangsterism in schools, community members were clear that the prevalence of learners roaming the streets during school times was unacceptable with the example of children congregating behind the community hall smoking dagga being underscored. A resident indicated that he even had evidence of drugs allegedly being sold at schools in the area.
Spaza shops allegedly owned by foreign nationals was also highlighted as an issue as it became a hangout for learners where they are sold cough mixture to gain a so-called high.
Shebeens not complying with the criteria of their liquor license and that operates until early morning is also a cause for concern regarding noise pollution.
The recruitment of people of mixed race by the Police and the Department of Transport and Community Safety was also raised by more than one community member. On this issue community member Angela Salter alleged that the lack of Afrikaans-speaking officers results in statements not being interpreted correctly and dockets not being compiled properly.
Referring to the current CPF structure one community member raised the issue that the structure in place was illegal as there was allegedly no participation from the community in the election process of the members.
Lebowakgomo Police Cluster Commander Lediga Mashilo addressed the community and noted that some issues were very touchy. “Crime prevention starts with me. Everyone has to take responsibility and together we can move along with the same vision,” he said.
According to him all issues raised would be addressed and he referred to drug-related problems as mind-boggling. “We fight drugs with everything we have and mostly rely on information from communities to apprehend perpetrators. Allegations of cops being involved in drug-related activities will not be allowed,” he said.
Masemola concluded the meeting with his address during which he said that he was happy to have been exposed to the situation in the ward. “We are prepared to take the bull by its horns. We want to see love, care and democracy being celebrated and that not only safety and security issues being addressed, but also general living conditions of the people of Ward 19,” he said.
He remarked that the department was working closely with the Polokwane Municipality to close taverns, spaza shops and illegal businesses across the city.
“Westenburg needs special attention. It will not be nor become a playground for criminals. Your pain is our pain and we must provide solutions. We need to find an oiled system in place.”
Story: YOLANDE NEL
>>observer.yolande@gmail.com
RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com