The University of Limpopo (UL) celebrated its 60th anniversary with alumni and stakeholders during a weeklong series of events hosted at the Onkgopotse Tiro Hall from 9 to 13 September.
The celebrations saw prominent alumni addressing various themes through talks and panel discussions within the faculties of Health Sciences, Management and Law, Science and Agriculture and Humanities.
The celebrations reflected on the university’s decades of struggle, social activism, excellence and finding solutions to African challenges.
Speaking on the theme: ‘Turfloop, a fertile ground for a career in media’, one of the university’s own products and Chairman of MSG Afrika Investment Holdings, Given Mkhari, praised the university for its achievements of six decades.
He said current students should focus on how far the university has come as an institution of learning by showing respect for their studies and being responsible. “Students should invest their time in things which will take them to the future. The university’s staff are more than equipped to give every student the opportunity to become someone.”
UL alumnus and Judge President of the Gauteng Division of the High Court, Judge Dustan Mlambo highlighted that the Judiciary had to be autonomous to protect the citizens from exploitation. “The essence of constitutionalism is to protect the interest of society by limiting the power of the state through the law. The doctrine of separation of powers requires that the arms of government perform the different functions of the state to prevent centralization of public power.”
Fellow alumnus and Judge President of the Mpumalanga Division of the High Court, Francis Legodi told the gathering that his success was a direct result of good attitude towards life. “Attitude can make or break you, lift up or bring you down. Many students during our time saw their attitude as their assets guided by hope and patience.”
Speaking on preparations for the 4th Industrial Revolution (Artificial Intelligence and Digital Environment) Professor in Physics and Director of Materials Modelling Centre at UL, Phuti Ngoepe highlighted the challenges of the 4IR in teaching and learning. He said new techniques and approaches are needed to develop the curriculum for the 4IR. “To prepare graduates for the workspace, the education sector should introduce new technologies offered by the revolution to learners from early grades such as Grade 1.”
Language expert Prof Mbulungeni Madiba from the University of Cape Town spoke on Preparations for the 4th Industrial Revolution and highlighted that the 4IR presents opportunities for marginalized African languages to gain equal status to colonial languages.
Madiba further stated that although the development of African languages in South Africa is a constitutional requirement, the challenge of colonity is still thorny despite several language bodies being instituted to accelerate the promotion of indigenous languages. “Such bodies include the Pan South African Language Board and National Language Service, Arts and Culture,” he said, adding that Africa has over 2 000 languages, about a third of the world’s languages, “None of these languages are used as a language of instruction in various disciplines anywhere other than in Sub-Saharan Africa,” he reminded.
UL Vice-Chancellor and Principal Mahlo Mokgalong said the institution’s sixty year journey was replete with achievements. “Our institution was launched as a college, and now one would have been ridiculed then as being excessively ambitious had one imagined UL as it is today, being a leading producer of today leaders in various disciplines. We are the University that produces the best. We have produced a President of the country and Premiers of various provinces. We have produced 30 judges, we have also produced trendsetters, administrators and entrepreneurs.”
He said their infrastructure has grown in leaps and bounds over the years, servicing a population of over 21 000 students. “We have left solid footprints in our environs through scholarly community outreach. Not only did we open the first medical school since the democratic dispensation in South Africa, but we have also developed a relevant programme qualification mix that addresses the job market in the millennium while producing innovation among our graduates.”
He stressed that the next chapter beyond the sixty-year feat will be the building and sustaining of an international reputation. “We have established a portfolio of Research, Innovation and Partnership to begin positioning the university as a global player in knowledge generation,” Mokgalong said.
Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com
Prof Sethasivian Cooper, Clinical Psychologist and a member of SABC board.
Victor Kgomoeswana, a consultant, speaker, author and media commentator.
Ernest Khosa, Chairman of the South African Civil Aviation Board.
Bhango Mahlangu, UL SRC President in 1985 as Azaso member.
Dr Thabo Makgoba, Archbishop of Cape Town and Metropolitan of the -Anglican Church of Southern Africa.
UL Alumnus Prof Rehabeam Auala, retired Professor of Educational Management and Administration at the University of Namibia.
Prof Mbulungeni Madiba, Language Expert at UCT.
Phandelani Nefolovhodwe, Chairperson of the University of Limpopo Council.
Prof Muxe Nkondo, former Vice Principal Academic Affairs of the University of the North.
George Phatudi, Judge of High Court of South Africa, Limpopo Division, Polokwane and former SRC President at University of the North.
Dustan Mlambo, Judge President of the Gauteng Division of the High Court of South Africa and alumnus of UL.
Ephraim Makgoba, Judge President of the Limpopo Division of the High Court of South Africa and alumnus of UL.
Malesela Legodi, Judge President of the new Mpumalanga Division of the High Court and an alumnus of UL.
Maditsi Mphela, Managing Director of Mphela and Associates an alumnus of UL.
UL Namibian Alumnus and successful business woman, Shekupe Shaetonhodi (B Optometry).
Prof Regina Maphanga, Associate Professor at the Materials Modelling Centre, UL.
Prof Phuti Ngoepe, Professor of Physics and Director of the Materials Modelling Centre at UL.
UL Alumnus Senelisiwe Magagula, Project Manager for the South African National Space Agency.
Dr Motlatjie Anne Letsebe (BA Social Science UL).
Dr Happy Sithole, Director of the Centre for High-Performance Computing.
Given Mkhari, Chairman of MSG Afrika Investment Holdings and UL alunus.
Mpumelelo Mkhabela, Media 24 political columnist and UL alumnus.
Isaac Maredi, Executive Director of Information and Communication Technology at the UL.
Dr Mathole Motshekga, a Professor of Law at the Nelson Mandela University.
Prof Barney Pityana, retired Principal and Vice-Chancellor of the University of South Africa.
Prof Suresh Singh, Mathematics and Physical Science teacher at UL.
Commissioner Dr Matshikhiri Neluvhalani who served the Department of Education as teacher and principal at secondary schools and then returned to the UL as Language Methodology Lecturer.
Adv Pat Mabaso, Deputy Director of Legal Services in the Mpumalanga Provincial Government.
Alumnus Benny Boshielo, African Rainbow Minerals Corporate Affirms Executive.
Prof Mthulisi Velempini, Head of Department of Computational and Mathematical Sciences at the University of Limpopo.
Richard Madadzhe, Deputy Vice Chancellor for Teaching and Learning at UL.