PEPPS Preparatory School and College hosted its prize giving gala for grade 4 to 7 learners last Thursday when their greatest achievements of the year were highlighted and celebrated.
Learners were awarded for their outstanding achievements in academic work and leadership and received certificates of merit, trophies and Independent Examinations Board (IEB) certificates.
Among the achievements the Big Gold won by Grade 6 learners in the category for dramatic poetry during the recent PEPPS Creative Arts Evening and the Pietersburg English Medium Primary School Eisteddfod.
Among the big winners was Jenny Zhang who scooped Gold awards for scoring 80% in Match assessment, a Certificate of Distinction for placement in the top 3% of learners in Match assessment Paper 1 and a Certificate of Distinction for placement in the top 3% of learners in Match assessment. The Kea Smith Art trophy, merit certificate for Best Overall Economic Management Science Project and Leader Award for displaying consistent self-discipline, wholesome character and good behaviour throughout her year of service were also awarded to her.
Princess Monyelo received the Lawrence Award for Scientific Curiosity, Mestayer Trophy for Top Natural Science results in Grade 7, Grit Award as the learner who worked the hardest to follow through on commitments in Grade 7, Leader Award for displaying consistent self-discipline, wholesome character and good behaviour throughout her year of service and awards for impeccable manners and excellent behaviour in English, impeccable manners and consistent hard work in Afrikaans and significant improvement in Mathematics throughout the year.
Tapi Chuma claimed an award for being in the Top Ten in each school Term for 2019, the Werner Trophy for Overall Top Ten in each Term for four consecutive years, a Leader Award, Silver for Top Extra Credits accumulation in term one to term four in Grade 7 and an IEB Academic Silver award for scoring 70 to 79% in Match assessment. The Kea Smit Social Science Trophy and Lawrenson Award for Scientific Curiosity also found a new home on Tapi’s shelf.
Relotilwe Sekhula received two IEB Academic silver awards for scoring 70 to 79% in Match assessment, the Entrepreneurs’ Day Trophy for Most Successful Entrepreneurial Group and a Top Ten award in each Term for 2019. Troy Hillary scooped an award for Top Ten in each Term for 2019, Top Ten in each term for four consecutive years and the Rene Kidd Afrikaans Trophy.
Story: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Princess Monyelo.
Tapi Chuma.
Relotilwe Sekhula.
Troy Hillary.