Aubrey Manaka (28) who is suspected of the brutal killing of Precious Ramabulana, a student of Capricorn Technical and Vocational Education and Training (Tvet) College’s Ramokgopa Campus, at Botlokwa last Sunday, appeared in the Morebeng Magistrate’s Court on Monday.
A large crowd of community members reportedly gathered at the court but Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed that the gathering was peaceful and that no incidents were reported.
Manaka who stands accused of murder, housebreaking with the intent to rape, rape and robbery with aggravating circumstances abandoned his bail application and will appear in the same court again at the end of January. He will remain in custody. Provincial leadership as well as President Cyril Ramaphosa were seen to have visited the Ramabulana family on the weekend.
Transport and Community Safety MEC Dickson Masemola’s addressing the Safety and Security Summit hosted in Tzaneen on Friday and Saturday, said: “I am addressing you this morning with mixed emotions, both of sadness and as well as a sigh of relief. Sadness because as a province, Limpopo and the country as a whole have suffered the loss of a young girl, 21-year-old Precious Ramabulana, at the hands of a ruthless criminal. Sadly, this is compounded by the fact that Precious was murdered during a time when the men around the country are challenged to mobilise against gender-based violence, the abuse of children and people with disabilities.”
Masemola indicated that Police executed a 72-hour activation plan which resulted in the mobilisation of critical resources including Crime Intelligence, Forensic Services, the Hawks and detectives. The speedy strategic approach led to the arrest of Manaka at his parental home at Nyakelang village, Botlokwa.
During the arrest Police recovered cellular phones which possibly belonged to the victim, blood-stained clothes and the possible murder weapon.
“We are confident that we have the right suspect in custody and that he has a case to answer to,” Masemola said.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
The murder suspect is being escorted by Police as members of the Public Order Policing Unit (Pops) are also on standby while a large crowd of community members gathered in front of the court.