In the rural areas of South Africa particularly stories abound of how artists and crafters either struggle to make a living or are exploited because of their lack of city smarts. An award-winning partnership between the private sector and Venda and Tsonga artisans in Limpopo is changing that, by encouraging villagers to use their creative skills to support their households.
The Madi a Thavha Mountain Lodge near Louis Trichardt in the Soutpansberg region has partnered with a number of local beaders, weavers, potters and sculptors to help them monetise their talent while enhancing the lodge’s cultural tourism offering.
So successful is this collaboration that it won the 2019 Business and Arts South Africa award for cultural tourism, as a shining example of sustainable social entrepreneurship in the creative economy, practicing responsible tourism that benefits the surrounding community. It is also one of the National Arts Council’s flagship projects.
Marcelle Bosch, owner of Madi a Thavha, was quoted in a media statement to have said: “ When the lodge opened its doors 15 years ago, it began offering its mainly international guests arts and culture experiences through village tours and meeting the local artisans in their homesteads and workspaces. This evolved into supporting the crafters with product development, production, training and marketing, tapping into their skills to produce high-quality clay pots, wooden plates, baskets, sculptures and beadwork to sell to lodge patrons. In this way, we have built up a sustainable relationship with about 30 artisans in northern Limpopo.”
“Sometimes our projects are partly funded such as by the National Arts Council and the Tourism Conservation Fund but we don’t rely on project funding, because supporting these artisans is part of our business strategy. In such a way, we can offer continuous support to them to develop their businesses, which are often situated in remote and isolated rural areas. We hope such funding continues, but even if it doesn’t, we will carry on.”
Bosch further stated that there is a healthy appetite for authentic, handmade artisanal and craft items as opposed to tourist tat or low-grade curios and says their guests are genuinely interested in seeing how the locals live and work. “This way, we can offer a unique experience to tourists.” The lodge also “breathes local culture” in its decor, art gallery, museum and shop. Buyers like to know the story of the crafters and the art and crafts they make. We present these stories at our lodge and at our CraftArt centre at Victoria Yards.”