After an intense contest on stage during the Miss and Mr Limpopo 2019/20 grand finale at Meropa Casino and Entertainment World on Sunday, the top three winners in each category were announced.
The crowd responded excitedly when Kgeledi Letsoalo was named Mr Limpopo and Mr Public Choice while Rethabile Mojapelo got to wear the Queen’s crown after outcompeting ten other contestants. Kemisho Tsatsi was named First Prince, Mr Photogenic and Mr Congeniality with his counterpart, Benjamin Maila settling for second prince.
The Miss Limpopo 2019/20 First Princess title went to Kamogelo Kwapa with Mathema Kgomo announced as the runner-up while also scooping the Miss Photogenic and Miss Congeniality titles. The Public Choice accolade in Miss Limpopo category went to Temana Masipa.
It was an evening full of excitement and emotions and the crowd could not stop cheering at all the contestants from the side-lines. Men put their whistling skills to the test while women ululated. The audience was kept on the edge of their seats while the finalists took to the ramp in swim wear, own creations and evening wear. The top five females and three men found themselves in the hot seat when confronted by some tricky questions from the panel of judges.
The judges focused their questions around gender-based violence since the country is currently observing 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children.
Miss and Mr Limpopo pageant organiser Matlakala Bopape said she was proud of all the participants as she mentioned that the crowning day was of high standard, professional, elegant and amazing. She further stated that the top three winners in each category worked hard since day one and emphasised that the contestants had been on a challenging and exciting journey for five weeks and they were judged on numerous activities. Bopape added that the title winners are expected to come up with ways to fight societal ills.
“We expect them to become role models for the youth. They must inspire them to focus on their studies rather than engage in criminal activities. We need male role models in society to inspire boy-children, guide and groom them into better people. I believe in all the winners and I am certain they will use the titles to uplift communities,” Bopape explained.
She congratulated all the winners and encouraged those who did not win this time not to give up but rather continue working hard and chase after their goals. She added that the competition had been tough and that the participants were all winners although only a few got the prizes and titles.
Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Mr Limpopo 2019/20 First Prince Kemisho Tsatsi who was also named Mr Photogenic and Mr Congeniality, winner and Mr Public Choice Kgeledi Letsoalo and Benjamin Maila, Second Prince.
Miss Limpopo 2019/20 Rethablile Mojapelo.
First Princess Kamogelo Kwapa.
Mr Limpopo 2019/20 and Mr Public Choice, Kgeledi Letsoalo.
Kemisho Tsatsi, Mr Photogenic and Mr Congeniality as well as First Prince.
Mr Limpopo 2019/20 Second Prince, Benjamin Maila.
Mathema Kgomo, Second Princess as well as Miss Photogenic and Miss Congeniality.
Miss Public Choice, Temana Masipa.