The Mrs Polokwane 2020 grand finale was characterised by fashionable outfits, traditional attire, wound make-up and torn clothes to mark 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence at Bolivia Estate on Saturday when Mapula Legodi was named the winner of the title.
After months of charity work and other modelling activities Legodi was announced as the queen and will be supported by Modjadji Sebola as first and Mokgadi Maja as second princess. The Mrs Polokwane Congeniality title was scooped by Maggie Matloa while Mrs Photogenic was given to Sandra Nkwe. Although the pageant is essentially focused on charity work and uplifting communities all ten contestants nevertheless unleashed their best on stage hoping that their dancing and modelling abilities would impress the adjudication panel to win the top title.
A proud Legodi said the title was an opportunity to serve as she would use it for confidence activation which would in turn lead into action and getting women and the community to move from a place of being inspired to becoming whatever they want to be. Ahead of the finals Legodi hosted charity events that included a blanket drive, visits to an old age home, confidence coaching sessions at schools as well as a family fun day and awareness campaign on Gender Based Violence.
According to her, low self-esteem and gender-based violence are some of the burning issues in society. She intends to fight the issues by educating the society on the importance of celebrating one’s worth, have inclusive conversations between both male and female, family set-ups that educate and allows one to have a voice, encourage social and religious groups to deal with gender related violence.
Story: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Mrs Polokwane Second Princess Mokgadi Maja, Queen Mapula Legodi and First Princess Modjadji Sebola.
Mrs Polokwane 2020 Congeniality Maggie Matloa, left, and Mrs Photogenic Sandra Nkwe, far right with Mrs Polokwane Second Princess Mokgadi Maja, title winner Mapula Legodi and First Princess Modjadji Sebola.