Amid the 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence campaign a shocking video has emerged of a man who had allegedly killed his four-year-old son and was forced by community members of a village in Jane Furse to exhume the body from a shallow grave in his backyard, thus highlighting the daily horrors faced by women and children nationwide but also in Limpopo.
The video depicts the man being forced by a group of people to use a shovel and open the shallow grave he allegedly buried his four-year-old son in.
As the video runs on bystanders are heard shouting at the alleged perpetrator to: “Dig out the baby, take him out of the shallow grave.” One community member can be heard demanding that the man should take the body from the grave with his own hands. Another remarks that the victim had been buried with his clothes on.
A woman who apparently made the video recording can be heard crying as the suspect pulls the corpse covered in what could be a blanket from the grave. “You are cruel. Look at his (the boy’s) hands – he burnt the baby,” the woman sobs.
Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo indicated that the suspect was arrested on Sunday at about 19:20.
He is reportedly a Lesotho national and allegedly suffocated his son during the cause of the weekend, dug a shallow grave and buried the boy on the premises of his rented home.
Community members at Ngwanamatlang village on Sunday noticed what looked like a grave in the suspect’s yard and started questioning him. He then tried to run away but was caught and brought back to the scene where he was forced to dig up the heap of soil, according to Mojapelo.
The body, already in the early stages of decomposing, was retrieved by the man.
When Police arrived on the scene the body of the boy had already been removed from the grave.
Police had to react quickly to rescue the suspect who was at that time allegedly been under attack by the angry mob, according to Mojapelo.
The boy’s mother, also from Lesotho, was reportedly in Gauteng at the time of the alleged murder and illegal burial. It is understood that the father fetched the child from her two weeks ago supposedly to visit him, according to Mojapelo.
The suspect is currently in hospital and will appear in the Jane Furse Magistrate’s Court as soon as he recovers from his injuries.
The motive behind the killing is still being investigated.
Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba has condemned the incident. “As the Police and the communities are joining hands to fight violence perpetrated against women and children, incidents of this nature must heighten our collective resolve to uproot this scourge from our society,” Ledwaba was quoted to have said.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com