It was a proud and exciting moment at Ngoako Ramatlhodi Indoor Sport Complex last Thursday when more Maseala Progressive Primary School Grade R learners graduated.
Parents and guardians filled the hall to capacity to witness the spectacular occasion. Although masters of ceremony Hunadi Letsoalo and Sebasa Mogale tried their best to keep order inside the hall, the audience could not hide their excitement as they kept on taking photographs and dancing. Ahead of the official graduation ceremony, the well-dressed graduands rendered different items on stage such as drama, dance and poem. Parents and educators also proved that they still have the moves when they danced to Makhadzi and DJ Call-Me’s hit song ‘Matorokisi’. Learners received certificates of achievement as they will be starting with formal education in the next academic year.
Maseala Progressive Primary School Principal Felima Ndou emphasised that they were proud of the learners who showed a lot of dedication throughout the year. She stated that although it was not easy at the beginning of the year, she was delighted that the hard working and passionate educators Ethel Mochaki, Martina Mojela, Phina Kwakwa and Suzan Heynes managed to teach the children a lot of things. She added that this year’s Grade R class performed well and their work was outstanding.
Maseala Progressive School College Chancellor Masilo Mohlahlana indicated that as a learning institution they challenge and invite parents to get involved in their children’s academic work especially as early as Early Childhood Development stage. He emphasised that parents should be aware of their children’s developmental stages from day of birth. Mohlahlana thanked parents for entrusting the school with the future of their children.
Maseala Progressive School Executive Director Gladys Mohlahlana first outlined the meaning of the different graduation gowns learners were wearing. She said the green gown was worn by those who are numerically and scientifically endowed, red for those aligned to commerce and entrepreneurship while black is for those generally representing our three streams – science, commercial and humanities. She reminded that a child was a gift from God and that it was important for parents to nurture children accordingly for them to grow into better people. She concluded by acknowledging fathers and uncles for supporting the occasion as she mentioned that it was somewhat rare for men to attend such gatherings.
Story and photos:
 
Maseala Progressive School College Chancellor Masilo Mohlahlana officially opens the graduation ceremony.
Maseala Progressive Primary School Principal Felima Ndou welcomes the audience.
Executive Director Gladys Mohlahlana outlines the purpose of the ceremony.
Maseala Progressive School College Chancellor Masilo Mohlahlana capsMelody Dzwiti as Executive Director Gladys Mohlahlana looks on.
Maseala Progressive School College Chancellor Masilo Mohlahlana ushers the graduates into the hall.
Keabetswe Koko is proud to receive her graduation certificate from college Chancellor, Masilo Mohlahlana.
Othabetswe Ramano.
Reabetswe Seabela.
Bohlale Mehlape.
Nooi Mokgohloa.
Thato Moraba.
Phuti Seleka.
Thabelang Mathumo.
Thabiso Mohale.
Matome Mothapo.
Tshegofatso Seloane.
Grade R B class learners set the stage alight with their dance moves.
The D class entertains the audience.
Gospel artist Solly Malematja keeps parents and educators on their feet.
A guard of honour and flashing cameras as the graduands enter the hall.