The Department of Public Works, Roads and Infrastructure led by MEC Monicca Mochadi held its service Excellence awards during a night of glitz and glamour, whereby colleagues celebrated and encouraged each other to be public servants who serve with excellence.
“ We are all fully aware that the department’s performance is not where it should be, however there are men and woman who in their line of work are doing exceptionally well and need to be celebrated , these are pockets of excellence that we are awarding in order to encourage others to also put in the same effort. “Mochadi said
The award categories are as follows:
Best Service Delivery Team: These are the teams/ projects established that render or benefit direct services to the citizens.
Best Innovative Team: This includes a team or institution that has developed new and creative approach or idea/s in rendering service delivery in the province.
Best Support Team: This include the team or unit that enables the service delivery institution or team to render effective and efficient services, e.g. Human Resources, Supply Chain Management, Finance, Information and Communication Technology, Communication Services, etc.
Best Individual: These are individuals that show exceptional creativity and innovation.
Most Improving District:
The category focus mostly on improvement and audit outcomes to encourage adherence to government prescripts, quality services, commitment and ownership of our work as we perform our duties. The category only focus on districts to encourage them to be more responsive, accountable and ensure that there is good value for money at the end of the day.
Silver: Parliamentary Village: Cleaning Team
Bronze: Capricorn District: Cleaning Team
Gold: Head Office Human Resource Development Team
Silver: Sekhukhune Auxiliary Services Team
Bronze: Head Office Asset Management Team
Gold: Maruleng Cost Centre: Drainage Team
Silver: Thabazimbi: Drainage Team
Bronze: Head Office: EPWP Team
Gold: Hoeraroep Cost Centre: Re-gravelling Team
Silver: Hoeraroep Cost Centre: Gabion Team
Bronze: Hoeraroep Cost Centre: Drainage Team
Gold: Mr. N.P Marokhu
Silver: Ms. M.C Makgoba
Gold: Mr G Moraba, Sekhukhune District
Silver: Ms. C Davidds, Head Office
Bronze: Ms S Madiba, Sekhukhune District
Gold: Waterberg District
Silver: Sekhukhune District
Bronze: Vhembe District