Three suspects aged between 19 and 20 years were arrested during a spree of havoc and accompanying damages allegedly caused by students of the Seshego and Polokwane campuses of the Capricorn College for Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVet) when the central office in the city was under attack on Tuesday.
Students claimed they had not received their National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) allowances for a period of three months and this time, after their voices were allegedly not heard during similar protest earlier this year, they returned with a vengeance, resulting in damages to infrastructure and the institution’s central office in Market Street.
It was learnt that some students had been forced to drop out of college because they couldn’t afford to pay rent and fees and had no money for meals and transport. The situation allegedly left them with no choice but to embark on a second protest at the central office. The first protest over the same issue saw students damaging road signs along Marshall and Suid streets in February.
Mienkie Ramakgoakgoa of the Provincial Police Communications Centre confirmed the arrest of three suspects who face charges of public violence but could not elaborate on when they were expected to appear in the local magistrate’s court.
Students holding posters during the protest action.
During the protest one of the disgruntled students, Isaac Masha­bela, who identified himself as a national additional member of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Students Command from the Seshego campus, indicated that their grievances were not taken serious until they take to the streets to protest. He further said students who are mostly affected by non-payment of allowances are affiliated to the two aforementioned campuses because they cater for a large number of students.
Lekau Mamabolo, Principal of Capricorn College for TVet collects some of the posters left by the disgruntled students during their protest action.
“We have tried to engage with school management for some time but when we request meetings we are always told that the Chief Financial Officer or the Chief Executive Officer is not available to attend to our queries. NSFAS deposits money in the college account for the institution to transfer the money to the right students but management fails to do this simple exercise. We are from poor family backgrounds and depend on the scheme but it is unfortunate that the college does not listen to students,” Mashabela explained.
He went on to claim that the college requests 80% class attendance from the students in order to pay the money, adding that they have been adhering to the demand but yet they still don’t get the money owed to them. Mashabela alleged that students had threatened to continue with the protest until their demands are met and further pleaded with college management to resolve the issues to help youth shape their future.
Capricorn College for TVet Marketing and Branding Officer Adelaide Mabotja indicated that they were aware of the students’ grievances and reiterated that a meeting between college management and students representatives was set for today (Thursday) to come up with ways to resolve the issues. She further highlighted that payments were currently being made to students who meet the 80% attendance requirements.
Broken windows at the central office of Capricorn College for TVet.
Damage to the main entrance as the building was pelted with stones.
Mabotja stressed that they were saddened and disappointed by the state of affairs and are committed to further engage with the students to reach an amicable decision and added that assessment will be conducted to determine the costs of the damages. A case of malicious damage to property will be opened with the Police and disciplinary actions will be taken against all student perpetrators, Mabotja explained and concluded by pleading with students to raise grievances in a civilised manner rather than damaging public property.
Thipa Selala, spokesperson at the Polokwane Municipality, in a press statement condemned the students’ acts of vandalism and destruction. He indicated that traffic lights, poles and other road signs were destroyed during the protest. “Traffic lights and other road signs are there to facilitate the safe movement of traffic, including cars, pedestrians and other travellers. It is important for our people to know that acts of vandalism and destruction of public property are criminal offences punishable by law. It is the most unacceptable and unfortunate conduct that sets a wrong trend. Any person found engaging in this activity in any way will be charged,” Selala was quoted to have said.
He further urged anyone with information that can lead to more arrests to come forward and report to the Police.
Story: RC Myburgh, Endy Senyatsi
Photos: Yolande Nel, Herbert Rachuene & supplied
Disgruntled students of Capricorn College for TVet throw stones at the building.
A fire started by students on the premises of Capricorn TVet College’s central offices.
The street in front of the central office is strewn with vegetation and building rubble.