Following a horrific motorcycle accident which put him in a wheelchair in 2017 well-known local DJ Solomon Ramauka started the Beyond Disability SA organisation in 2019 to address challenges faced by people living with disabilities in different disadvantaged communities and also change stereotypes and myths about people with disability in black communities.
Through the organisation Ramauka engages various corporates, private organisations, government institutions and entrepreneurs to help people living with disabilities regain their confidence and identify economic and sport opportunities for them. “I am also educating community members about disability and how they should accommodate persons with impairments. In my sessions I usually speak passionately about changing stereotypes and myths about people with disability in black communities because they are neglected and they are treated differently by fellow community members. I always emphasise that my disability is when I find a barrier and that is when my disability clicks in, but besides that I am just like any other person. So, it is important to share and create such awareness with community members,” he said.
Ramauka further stated that he did not want disability to halt his dreams, hence he decided not to give up or rest on his laurels and pursue something different. “I thank God for life and for giving me the ability to start something that will uplift the lives of people living with disability. Usually people who are wheelchair users are expected to seek help and beg for certain things for survival. I told myself that I will not be a part of such statistics because my mind is still able to function properly and I have not lost my talent and my abilities to do what I love the most. Being in a wheelchair has made me to realise that my disability is new chapter for greatest journey. It took something bad for something good to happen,” Ramauka remarked.
He encouraged those who are struggling with their disability to rehabilitate themselves in order to face the outside world. “It was not easy to accept my situation. Almost all my friends and family members deserted me. I went through a successful rehabilitation to prepare myself for this new journey. It is worse when one has no psychological support, one needs to be around loving and caring people in order to survive the ordeal. I am back at spinning the disc and I have already performed at few events on wheelchair in the country. I visit various tertiary institutions to meet with students living with disabilities to discuss issues affecting them on a regular basis. I also meet regularly with other disabled persons from various areas in the country and the province to share challenges and good stories. I just want to see all disabled persons in the country living freely just like other able bodied persons” added Ramauka.
He started his DJ career in 1997 while still at Mokgatho High School to fight the scourge of poverty and unemployment. “I grew up in a poor family. My parents were employed but they were unable to provide for all of us and though events I was able to assist them to put food on the table. I was able to survive the harsh realities in the township, including crime. I created my own events alongside friends. I had an opportunity to be a fan park DJ and post-match party organiser for the 2010 World Cup activations in Polokwane. Through these events I uncovered managerial skills which were later utilised to organise bigger events, including among others, private sector events, road shows and government events,” concluded Ramauka.
Story and photo: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com