Flora Park Comprehensive High School (FCHS) awarded the top 20 best performing learners in each grade for marks attained in the second quarter during the morning assembly session on Monday.
All rewarded learners received badges, the top three in each grade cash prizes ranging from R150 to R50, while subject prize winners and progressed learners were presented with medals. The best highlight of the ceremony was when Grade 9 learner, Stephina Machebe was named the school’s overall top learner for the second term. She received three gold medals for overall top learner in Mathematics with 92%, overall best learner in school with 84% pass rate and for being a top learner in her grade.
Principal Joseph Masekela indicated that the gesture was mainly to motivate learners to study hard for them to improve the school’s matric pass rate from 83% to at least 90% at the end of the 2019 academic year. He stated that they had introduced a category for progressed learners to inspire them and reiterated that a Mathematics category was also added to the list of awards for learners in Grades 8 and 9 for them to develop love and passion for the subject.
“We have realised that learners in Grades 8 and 9 still think Maths is difficult hence we believe the category would pursuade them to pay undivided attention to the subject. Our learners showed commitment in the previous term and we hope they will continue with the same pace to pass with flying colours at the end of the year. I would like to thank all the learners and educators for their continued hard work,” Masekela explained and concluded by encouraging them to work even harder in the remaining two school terms.
Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Grade 8 top three best learners are Jane Moagi, Sara Mathole and Valencia Mathoko.
Best learners in Grade 9 are Stephina Machebe, Jennifer Musengwa and Naledi Leseka.
Top achievers in Grade 10 are Nape Motau, Khutjo Mongalo and Karabo Letsoalo.
Grade 11 best learners are Molebogeng Tlomatsana, Rosinah Mathiba and Lebogang Letsoalo.
Best matrics are Tshomoko Mosweu, Itumeleng Mathopa and Lwazi Mathaga.