Police and local reactionary unit Mighty Tactical Reaction Services (TRS) clamped down on close to 20 suspects and confiscated a convoy of excavators and trucks during an operation following leads pointing to alleged illegal mining of diamonds and approximately 600 loads of sand daily on the city’s doorstep on Friday.
The operation, led by Westenburg Police Station Commander Maimele Pilusa saw several detectives responding to allegations from members of the community about alleged illegally mining of diamonds and theft of sand on two privately owned pieces of land in the Bergnek area about 40 km outside Polokwane.
On the scene Pilusa indicated that the suspects would be detained until they can provide relevant permits and documentation for the removal of sand from the area, otherwise they will be charged with illegal mining. The confiscated trucks and excavators were taken to the Police pound and will have to undergo roadworthy tests before they may be released, according to Pilusa.
It was learnt that the suspects appeared in court earlier this week but an update was being awaited at the time of going to print.
The convoy of confiscated trucks, including two excavators being escorted to Polokwane.
Shabier Valjie of Mighty TRS and members of the source supported the Police by joining the operation. At the first scene, accessed through a gate and via a narrow gravel road, the joint forces only found excavations where criminals have allegedly been digging for diamonds. Deep excavations, high piles of sand and fresh tracks of heavy machinery were clear but no suspects were around. Police were then led to another site several kilometres from the first. Once again the convoy of Police and Mighty TRS vehicles entered the premises in the hope of catching illegal mining suspects red-handed.
The rumbling of earthmoving equipment could be heard in the distance while fresh tracks and old excavations were evident of recent activity. The officials and TRS members were more determined that they were on the right track and that their operation would end successfully.
It was not long before officials reached a point where an excavator driver was found loading sand onto a truck. Swift reaction from members halted the suspected illegal processes and the area was quickly scanned for more suspects, leading to the arrest of at least five persons who were unable to provide any permits.
While still on the scene more trucks arrived to be loaded, the drivers being surprised when met by forces who immediately brought them to a halt. All drivers were questioned and as none were able to provide relevant documents they were detained and the decision made to escort all vehicles to the Police pound in Polokwane.
During the process of getting the impounded trucks into convoy two drivers appeared to have escaped by taking the route to Lebowakgomo. This resulted in a high speed chase by Valjie, accompanied by a Police officer, to trace the drivers. One was subsequently pulled off the road not far from the convoy and ordered to turn back. The other driver was cornered in a village just outside Lebowakgomo.
At the time of going to print Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo had not responded to questions relating to illegal mining in the province.
Story & photos: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com