Substance abuse, HIV/Aids, teenage pregnancy, child-headed families, gangsterism and general safety at schools are common factors most of Limpopo’s learners are grappling with and an outcry for serious action to be taken was evident during a recent interaction between Representative Council of Learners (RCL) members from across the province and Education MEC Polly Boshielo last Friday.
Bullying, drugs, gangsterism and teenage pregnancies were topics of discussion and were highlighted by some RCL members as threats they and other learners have to face on a daily basis. It not only impacts on their personal lives but also leads to poor performance in class and during exams.
Lerutla Pebetse of SJ van der Merwe Technical High School in Lebowakgomo said school safety in general is a worrying issue. General safety issues, according to her, vary from the school premises to the situation in class. “Bullying, drug abuse and gangsterism are common among learners and the only way to address the issue is when the RCL and learners work together with educators, the Police and the department to rid schools of such learners,” she said.
Precious Maluleke of Nahwahwa High School added that some learners are definitely not at school to learn but to make trouble.
Teaching is hard these days, according to learners. Kgopa Melesiba of Monyong Secondary School in Mmotong said the behaviour of learners who smoke dagga is unacceptable. “They disturb classes, steal from other learners and the smell of dagga hangs in every classroom. They have no respect and their behaviour makes other learners feel insecure,” she said. Her possible solution is that schools should be raided by Police more regularly and that RCL members should attend informational sessions on drug-related issues.
Raising her concern about substance abuse, Ornathy Chauke of Bakenberg High School remarked that schools should be safe places for learners. “Learners bring knives to school and use dagga and nyoape while on school premises. Just over a week ago a learner was stabbed to death. It did not happen on school premises but is still a concerning matter. Parents think their children are at school but they are not,” she said.
She raised concern that learners as young as five or six are already exposed to substance abuse as they start experimenting with sniffing glue.
Teenage pregnancies seemingly no longer shock learners. Mahlogonolo Manamela of Bopedi Bapedi Technical High School in Ga-Marishane said some girls as young as 15 fall pregnant. “Some are doing it intentionally as they hope it will be an opportunity to get out of their current situation of poverty. They hope for a better live if they get pregnant with an older guy’s baby,” she said.
On the same topic Brian Mhangwana of Vuxeni High School commented that teenage pregnancies are a reality in schools and such learners miss out on an opportunity to be educated and to make something of their lives.
Child-headed families was also on the discussion list. “Such children are denied their right to be a child. They withdraw socially as they are now engaged in adult responsibilities. There are not enough support systems for such learners,” she said.
In Boshielo’s address she said: “To fight most of the social ills confronting our schools, we need prepared and organised RCL, we need organised communities who are sensitive, that are informed about the importance of education and communities that have the interest of their own children at heart.”
She added that as young leaders they must be able to isolate activities which do not advance teaching and learning, academic growth and learner discipline. As RCL members they must use the democratic voice given to them to discourage ills, especially in that they participate in decision making processes at their schools.
Story and photo: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com