The Mitchell House Parents Association (PA) hosted its first annual Family Amazing Race as part of the Mitchell House 25th birthday celebrations on Saturday.
Mitchell House Marketing Director Achsah Phoshoko said the PA annually hosts four events, one per phase, and this year they joined the Junior and Intermediate phases to host one event namely the Family Amazing Race.
“Our Mitchell House staff and parents community fully supported the PA in executing another successful event. A lot of work was put in organising and preparing for a smooth event and we could not have done it if it was not for every staff member at Mitchell House, the PA members and our 28 teams that participated,” the Parents Association chairperson, Orapeleng Chelopo informed.
Based on the reality game show, The Amazing Race, families made up teams to race around Polokwane. Contestants had to report at pit stops, here referred to as stations, to successfully complete allocated tasks before proceeding to the next station, using clues that they received at each station. The stations were at Greener Tidings, Sun Meropa, Savannah Mall (Tenpin Bowling and Checkers), Rocco Mama (Thornhill), Broadlands Stables, Mike’s Kitchen and finally at Mitchell House.
Not only was this event a family fun day activity, the PA aimed to raise funds to give back to the community. At R50 per team member, the team was given R50 as part of their pack to buy non-perishable foods at Checkers and the food parcels were given to the Polokwane Child and Family Care Society. Greener Tidings donated plants for each team to plant at the new Enrichment Centre garden.
“We would like to extend our gratitude to all our sponsors and station owners for allowing us the opportunity of including them in making this event the great success it was. To all the teams, well played, let’s do it again next year!” project leader Lenie Altenroxel stated.
Story and photos: BARRY VILJOEN
>>barryv.observer@gmail.com
The Mbhenyane family, Musa jr, front and Musa sr, Ntsako and Hlayisani at the back await their turn to embark on the Amazing Race.
Team Mokgadi consists of Mogau and Letago Legodi, front, Phineas and Lebone Legodi at the back.