Kids often need some sort of motivation and support to excel in their studies and as for the two Northern Muslim School learners, Nazifa Bhuiyan and Muhammad Motala the Department of Education Capricorn South District academic awards they received on Tuesday would most probably serve as motivation to obtain seven distinctions at the end of the year.
The two, both in Grade 12, were rewarded for being among the top 60 best performing Grade 11 learners in the previous academic year. Nazifa, who is also the school’s head girl, occupied the fourth spot while Muhammad finished in seventh place. Learners were judged by the marks obtained in all the seven subjects at the end of 2018 academic year. The duo received certificates for their hard work, dedication and perseverance.
During an interview with Polokwane Observer, aspiring medical doctor Nazifa could not hide her excitement as she indicated that it was an honour and privilege to be recognised by the Education Department. She said the reward would motivate her to work towards achieving seven distinctions at the end of the year. She intends studying medicine at the University of the Witwatersrand.
“I am very happy and proud of myself. The award will push me to work even harder. My parents are both medical doctors so I also want to be added to the list. It is not easy to pass with flying colours but the support from my family and educators made this possible,” Nazifa explained and added that her fellow learners should pay more attention to their school work to become the best they can be. She concluded by saying matrics should just imagine the National Senior Certificate (NSC) in their hands whenever they feel demoralised or lost to bounce back in the game.
Sharing his enthusiasm, Muhammad indicated that he had not expected the award and went on to say it was inspiring and motivating. He wants to further his studies in Mechatronic Engineering at the University of Cape Town as he clarified that the field was the future of the world and could improve the lives of many. The course focuses on the engineering of both electrical and mechanical systems, and also includes a combination of robotics, electronics, computer, telecommunications, systems, control, and product engineering.
Muhammad said while nothing in life comes easy people can achieve their goals through hard work, perseverance and dedication. He urged his peers to pay undivided attention to their school work to obtain good marks. Muhammad also thanked his family and educators for their continued support and God for the guidance.
See related story on web.
Story & photo: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za