Dennis Nghunyule (55), a captain stationed at the Modjadjiskloof Police Station is expected to apply for bail in the Giyani Magistrate’s Court on Monday after he was arrested on charges of murder and attempted murder following a shooting incident at his tavern on the weekend.
Eight community members were expected to appear in the same court on Tuesday facing charges of public violence in connection with the same case.
Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo indicated that the incident happened at Makosha village outside Giyani early Sunday morning.
It is alleged that Nghunyule had a quarrel with one of the patrons which resulted in him reportedly producing his wife’s firearm, shooting and killing the person instantly.
When the deceased’s brother interfered he was allegedly also shot but survived and is currently recuperating at a local hospital, according to Mojapelo.
Upon hearing about the incident the community of Makosha apparently mobilised and stormed the tavern. They reportedly looted the liquor and other valuables before setting the building on fire. They also torched four vehicles belonging to relatives of the Police officer, according to Mojapelo.
A retired Police officer who allegedly attempted to scare the crowd away by discharging his private firearm was assaulted and disarmed. He was also admitted to hospital.
Police were called to the scene to calm the situation resulting in two Police vehicles also being damaged by the angry crowd. Police managed to arrest eight community members on charges of public violence. They were expected to appear in the same court on Tuesday.
The deceased was identified as Oscar Mkhabela (22).
On a question whether Police officers are allowed to own taverns Mojapelo said that the matter would be internally probed and the outcome and possible sanction handled as such.
It was learnt that Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba has instructed the investigators in the case not to leave any stone unturned in determining and uncovering exactly what happened.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com