Polokwane Municipality intends to challenge a recent finding of the Public Protector regarding the appointment of a manager in its Finance Department more than five years ago, resulting in irregular expenditure of approximately R3 million.
The Public Protector received a complaint regarding the appointment of Suzaan Malan as Billing and Customer Care Assistant Manager with effect from 1 March 2014 on 12 May 2017. The following investigation focused on whether Malan’s appointment was regular and in line with prescripts and secondly whether any other member of the public had been prejudiced by the fact that the municipality’s advertisement calling for applications for the post did not state that the RPL principle would be taken into account.
According to a report that was subsequently released by Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane on 30 April this year, the appointment of Malan was irregular and Mkhwebane directed the municipality to declare Malan’s appointment as irregular within 30 working days from the date of the finding and that Malan’s salary be reflected as an irregular expenditure in the municipality’s financial statements. The Public Protector also directed that the municipality take disciplinary action against former acting Municipal Manager, Connie Mametja and the chairperson of the shortlisting and interviewing panel involved in Malan’s appointment, Fikile Mudau, who at the time was Chief Finance Officer. The current Municipal Manager, Dikgape Makobe should also be disciplined for failure to respond to a request for information requested by the Public Protector, Mkhwebane ruled. Finally, Mkhwebane ordered the municipality to review its recruitment policy, in particular to address employment equity in the workplace.
This follows after Malan was shortlisted, interviewed and promoted from the position of Accountant to Billing and Customer Care Assistant Manager and Malan was, according to the report of the Public Protector, also the best out of the eight candidates that were interviewed and had been executing and supervising the same functions successfully for some time.
The Public Protector found that Malan did not have the minimum academic qualifications called for in the advertisement in the media, although she had 26 years’ relevant experience and has successfully completed a Certificate Programme in Management Development for Municipal Finance as well as a Certificate in Municipal Finance Management. The shortlisting and interviewing panels, however, took the position that Malan’s Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) should be taken into account and that she was therefore a suitable candidate for the position. The Public Protector further found that Malan’s appointment was based on RPL-principle and due to the fact that RPL was not mentioned in the advertisement, the exclusion of this requirement denied any interested qualifying member of the public who had no degrees or diplomas but had vast relevant years’ experience an opportunity to apply for the post. Mkhwebane therefore held that Malan’s appointment was irregular.
Communications and Marketing Manager of the Polokwane Municipality, Matshidiso Mothapo confirmed that the municipality intends to challenge the Public Protector’s findings and added that “Mrs Malan is one of the hard working and efficient managers in the municipality and the municipality is pleased with her output. We cannot divulge her earnings as that is a private matter and protected by law,” Mothapo stated.
At time of going to print, Polokwane Observer could not determine what the extent of the payments to Malan over the period of more than five years could have been, however, based on the current package of approximately R800 000 per annum which includes employer contributions for a level 3 employee, the irregular expenditure may be in the region of R3 million.
Malan did not answer her official telephone at time of going to press when attempts were made to obtain her comment.
Story & photo: BARRY VILJOEN
>>barryv.observer@gmail.com