Limpopo has a new Cabinet following the inauguration of Legislature members and subsequent announcement of Members of the Executive Council (Exco) by Premier Stan Mathabatha earlier today (Wednesday).
Mathabatha took the oath of office at around 11:00 after being elected into the position. Around the same time Mavhungu Luruli-Ramakhanya was sworn in as Legislature Speaker and former Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs (Coghsta) MEC Jerry Ndou as Deputy Speaker.
Mathabatha announced his Provincial Cabinet shortly after and effected several changes to seemingly create space for a handful of newcomers to the scene. Former MECs Ishmael Kgetjepe, Rob Tooley, Makoma Makhurupetje and Mapula Mokaba-Phukwana were excluded from Mathabatha’s new Exco.
Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba retained her position and Thandi Moraka hers as MEC for Sport, Arts and Culture. Seaparo Sekoati was reshuffled to take up Tooley’s position as Provincial Treasury MEC. Basikopo Makamu was moved to Coghsta while Nandi Ndalane, who served in the capacity of MEC for Public Works, Roads and Infrastructure, will replace him as Agriculture MEC.
Former Legislature Speaker Polly Boshielo was given the Education portfolio in Kgetjepe’s place. Another newcomer Exco member, Monicca Mochabi was entrusted with Ndalane’s previous portfolio. Ruling party Provincial Working Committee (PWC) member Thabo Mokone is Limpopo’s new Economic Development, Environment and Tourism MEC, the position previously held by Sekoati. Nkakareng Rakgoale will take up the Social Development portfolio following Mokaba-Phukwana’s departure. Dickson Masemola, who served as Education MEC in the past, was given Makhurupetje’s Transport and Community Safety portfolio.
The Legislature is constituted of 49 seats of which the African National Congress (ANC) occupies 38, seven by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) as official opposition in the province, the Democratic Alliance (DA) has three and the Vryheidsfront Plus (VF Plus) who booted out Congress of the People (Cope) to occupy their single seat.
Story:
YOLANDE NEL
>>observer.yolande@gmail.com
ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za