The province’s medical fraternity and residents are jubilant after a second, reportedly successful second open heart surgical procedure that was performed at Mankweng Hospital on Friday by the same team who carried out a similar complex medical procedure at the facility a week ago.
It was learnt that a 50-year-old male patient who presented with aortic valve stenosis was given a new valve. It is a condition whereby the heart valve is prevented from opening properly thus forcing the organ to work harder to pump blood through the valve.
Information shared by the hospital’s acting Head Clinical Care Services, Seshoka Muila on Saturday highlighted that they would celebrate Freedom Day fully conscious of the fact that they are now able to perform such complex operations by themselves. He further said they continue to outperform themselves simply because of the determination and passion for what they do.
Muila added: “It is our responsibility and duty as nurses, doctors, cleaners, porters, pharmacists, et cetera to realise that dream.
We owe it to the leaders of various hospitals as led by Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba to challenge ourselves in pursuit of that which we promised the people of Limpopo namely a better working environment and quality healthcare.”
A day after the surgery, Ramathuba joined by Mankweng Hospital management reportedly visited the patient. A media statement quoted the MEC to have said: “A 50 year-old male patient with aortic valve stenosis due to calcification has a reason to celebrate Freedom Day.
The patient was literally given a new valve. One patient at a time until services are fully restored. This is the best way for me to celebrate Freedom Day knowing that so many lives are saved with the limited resources, knowing that now we have teams of leadership in our facilities who share my vision and appreciate the socio-economic challenges our people face.”
She thanked Muila for providing leadership within clinical governance and restoration of public confidence into Mankweng Hospital.
She went on to thank the surgeons and their supporting teams for giving hope to the hopeless and restoring public confidence in the system. According to Ramathuba, Man­kweng Hospital can now safely be referred as a tertiary and teaching hospital.
The first surgery was performed on a 42-year-old female patient who allegedly had a huge left atrial myxoma, a noncancerous primary heart tumour. It was learnt yesterday (Wednesday) that she had been discharged and was recovering at home. Last week Polo­kwane Observer reported that this was the first of its kind and the most complicated surgical procedure to have been performed in any public hospital in Limpopo since 1996.
For the past years, Limpopo has been referring all patients in need of cardiothoracic surgery to Gauteng, it was learnt.
Story: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za