In keeping with its vision of creating a conducive teaching and learning environment and maintaining the highest standards, Maseala Progressive Secondary School recently completed the refurbishing of two blocks of classrooms and established lab centres for different subjects to equip learners with information.
The school’s K and H blocks were renovated while the K block, formerly the school hall, also partitioned into classrooms and lab centres for Mathematics, Chemistry and Physics, Library Science, and English. The K block has been partitioned with modern doors that can be opened to turn the block into a hall.
Maseala Progressive Secondary School Deputy Principal, Abraham Mmethie indicated that the improvement made it possible for the school to host 26 debating teams from various schools in the province for the first elimination round of the 2019 Mayoral Debate tournament last Thursday. He stated that it was an honour to host so many schools at a go, adding that they hosted such a large number of debating teams last year.
“We are pleased to host such a big tournament which aims to groom future leaders. We are planning to establish a language lab centre in the future. We want to create a conducive learning and teaching environment for both our learners and educators. The other classroom in the K block are for commercial stream while the H block consists of a well-equipped computer centre,” Mmethie explained.
He further indicated that since there won’t be a school without a community, Maseala Progressive Secondary School allows Legae la Batho residents to use the school hall for community meetings at no cost. Mmethie went on to call on parents and guardians who are interested to enrol their children at the school in the next academic year to collect the application forms at the school starting from 31 July. The application forms are for learners who will be doing Grades 8, 9 and 10 and the closing date for submission is 31 September.
Maseala Progressive Secondary School is known for producing best results and this was witnessed again last year when they attained 96% pass rate.
‘Entrust Maseala Progressive Secondary School with the future of your child.’

Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Maseala Progressive Secondary School educator Primrose Mambo with deputy principal, Abraham Mmethie.
Maseala Progressive School directors, Masilo and Gladys Mohlahlana ensure that school facilities are always on par.
Educator Primrose Mambo with Maseala Progressive Secondary School’s junior debating team.

A group of adjudicators ready to judge debating teams.
Entrust Maseala Progressive Secondary School with the future of your child.
Maseala Progressive Secondary School lab centres are designed to equip learners with information.
Maseala Progressive Secondary School will be open for applications from 31 July.
Maseala Progressive Secondary School’s newly refurbished blocks of classrooms.