MEC for Sport, Arts and Culture, Thandi Moraka has congratulated Baroka and Black Leopards football clubs on retaining their Premier Soccer League (PSL) status due to the remarkable results they attained from their last remaining matches of the league on Saturday.
The two clubs were hovering in the relegation zone prior to their last matches of the 2018/19 PSL season and they had to accrue maximum points in order to stay afloat in the elite league.
Baroka secured a point against Maritzburg United whilst Leopards thrashed Cape Town City Football Club 1-0 at Thohoyandou Stadium to finish the league in a decent position.
Moraka said they were proud of the strides made by the two clubs to avoid a possible relagation and playoffs. “Sometimes it is not how you start but how you finish. The two clubs showed character and the zeal to win their matches. We are happy for the players and the technical teams for their concerted efforts to avoid relegation. Most of our people, especially small and informal businesses benefit from the clubs when they host other teams in the province. These clubs bring economic spinoffs and also raise the sporting profile of our province. We are glad that they managed to avoid relegation because that would have badly affected everyone, businesses, football supporters and other related stakeholders. We wish them all the best in the next PSL campaign.”
She also paid special tribute to Polokwane City Football Club for finishing the league in the top 8 bracket and their stellar overall performance this season.
City accumulated a total of 44 points from 30 matches this season and they will be competing in the MTN 8 Cup next season.
They will be joined by the likes of Highlands Park, Cape Town City, Orlando Pirates, Wits,Bloemfontein Celtic, Mamelodi Sundows and Super Sport United who will be contesting for the lucrative title. “They have been consistent throughout the season and have claimed the scalps of bigger teams in the league. We are adamant that they will do well in the MTN 8 cup. We are saying to them, we are extremely proud and they must continue with same performance next season,”concluded Moraka.
Story: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com