A total of 170 suspects were arrested during various operations conducted across the province last week and on the weekend.
Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe indicated that the suspects are aged between 23 and 60 years of age and were expected to appear before various courts since last week.
He added that the suspects were apprehended on charges of murder, illegal hunting, possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition, burglary, theft out of motor vehicle, assault, fraud, driving under the influence of alcohol, possession of suspected stolen properties, theft and drinking in public.
Various stolen items such as firearms, vehicle and other personal belongings as well as large amounts of dagga were confiscated during the arrests made through roadblocks, stop and search operations, raiding of unlicensed businesses and tracing of wanted suspects.
Some of the stolen items confiscated during last week’s operation.
Ngoepe highlighted that three suspected poachers were arrested outside Lephalale on the weekend for possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition.
In the same cluster five suspects aged between 15 and 25 years were successfully traced and arrested after they were positively linked to a house breaking incident that occurred at Sefihlogo village. During the arrest Police recovered an unlicensed firearm, a magazine and six rounds of live ammunition, according to Ngoepe.
Another three suspects were arrested at Marapong Village after being found in possession of an illegal rifle and a silencer which was wrapped in a plastic bag with ammunition.
In another incident Police recovered a hijacked vehicle after receiving a tip-off from members of the community in Makhado. Police followed up information about an unknown number of suspects planning to commit a business robbery in the Nzhelele area. Police spotted a vehicle matching the description and gave chase until the vehicle was found abandoned at Makushu. Police searched the vehicle and recovered two firearms.
The vehicle was allegedly hijacked along the N1 on Saturday.
Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba has hailed the exceptional service rendered by the operational members during the operations.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com