The new Range Rover Evoque was the centre of attention when it made its way to the showroom floor during the vehicle’s launch at Jaguar Land Rover Polokwane last Thursday.
Guests instinctively reached for their cell phones and the event quickly took on the appearance of a celebrity affair.
The new Range Rover Evoque’s dramatic, confident and sophisticated design is in complete harmony with the simplicity of its intuitive technologies and supreme levels of functionality. Sophistication and space are abundantly apparent in its beautifully appointed interior. Whilst best-in-class off-road capability adds greatly to the composure of your drive.
The Evoque embraces the continuation of the manufacturer’s modernist design philosophy, creating a bold evolution. With its distinctive coupé-like silhouette, characterful rising beltline and unique personality, Range Rover Evoque is a compelling successor to the vehicle that captured hearts all over the world. Detail design highlights include flush deployable door handles, optional 21” wheels and Matrix LED headlights with Animated Directional Indicators, bringing a higher level of sophistication and modernity.
The modernist design philosophy continues throughout the roomy luxurious interior. Uncluttered surfaces, reductive line work and carefully curated premium materials come together to create a sophisticated and highly desirable cabin. Improved interior packaging achieves optimum ergonomics to give greater comfort and control while optional Touch Pro Duo and capacitive switches help enhance the environment. Range Rover Evoque features innovative technology, such as Smart Settings, which recalls your personal vehicle preferences and automatically configures your Range Rover Evoque as you left it. Other features include optional Cabin Air Ionisation to improve air quality and remove allergens.
The Evoque uses some of Land Rover’s most intuitive and innovative technologies to date. Optional features such as Touch Pro Duo, a 12,3” Interactive Driver Display, Head-up Display, a Meridian Surround Sound System, Click and Go integrated Rear Seat Entertainment and Smartphone Pack all add greatly to your enjoyment of the vehicle. The optional ClearSight interior rear view mirror provides an unobstructed rear view regardless of objects that would normally disrupt it. Just one in a suite of driver assistance features making every journey safer and more relaxing
The new Evoque comes with a choice of a diesel or petrol engine. The Ingenium 2,0 litre 4-cylinder 132 kW Turbocharged Diesel engine produces 430 Nm of torque and is optimised to deliver improved drivability and refinement. The Ingenium 2,0 litre 4-cylinder 183 kW Turbocharged Petrol engine produces 36 5Nm of torque and delivers impressive fuel economy and drivability.
When it comes to refinement, exemplary levels help to create the new Range Rover Evoque. Optional Adaptive and Configurable Dynamics ensure that its handling is confident and sure-footed. A broad range of powertrain options and a nine-speed automatic transmission provide an efficient delivery of power regardless of the terrain or weather conditions. The perfect balance between effortless capability and on-road refinement make Range Rover Evoque a joy to drive.
For more information contact Jaguar Land Rover Polokwane on 015 590 2900 or visit the dealership at 1 Buffalo Thorn Street, Baobab Gardens.
Story and photos: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
The spotlight is on the new Range Rover Evoque recently launched in the city.
Land Rover sales team, Casper Vorster jnr, Vernette Sambo, Eric du Preez (sales manager) and Rennie Janse van Rensburg.
Guests gather around the new vehicle.
The rear also interested guests.
Fulu Tshikundamalema and Talifhani Mphephu with Land Rover Sales Manager Eric du Preez, middle.

Jaguar Land Rover Polokwane Marketing Manager Elnette Polling welcomes guests.
Justice and Penelope Mosoma arrive at the launch.
Mother and daughter, Mapula and Tshegofatso Monyepao.