For the more than 1 000 suspects arrested during an intelligence-led joint operation, conducted by Police across the province over the past three weeks, the name New Dawn must have left a bitter taste in the mouth.
Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe indicated that the operation, led by Deputy Provincial Commissioner responsible for Policing, Jan Scheepers and Deputy Provincial Commissioner responsible for Detectives, Samuel Manala, made a significant impact when 1 090 suspects aged between 21 and 65 were arrested for various crimes.
New Dawn, conducted in phases since the beginning of the month, saw 171 road blocks, 2 102 stop and search operations and 1 353 vehicle control points where 43 921 persons and 14 379 vehicles were searched. Several liquor outlets were also raided across the province.
Police officers at a stash of illegal cigarettes worth more than R100 000.
Among those arrested were 87 for driving under the influence of alcohol, 19 for non-compliance with the liquor Act and public drinking and 24 for possession of dangerous weapons. The others were arrested on charges of, among others, rape, murder, armed robbery, burglary, house robbery, possession of and dealing in drugs, possession of suspected stolen goods, hijacking and theft. A total of 325 undocumented persons were also arrested.
Ngoepe, highlighting some of their successes, referred to three suspects arrested for possession of stolen property and possession of a suspected stolen vehicle at Zebediela. The suspects are believed to have been targeting students in the area.
A further highlight was the arrest of a 27-year-old man suspected of being responsible for a series of rapes in the Thohoyandou area. The suspect can possibly be linked to an incident during which a 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped inside a taxi in February.
Ngoepe further indicated that a 38-year-old man was arrested for being in possession of illegal cigarettes worth more than
R100 000 in Tzaneen while a 22-year-old woman was arrested on a charge of illegal hunting in Giyani after she was found in possession of a lion skin and a bag containing dried animal meat.
Among the large and varied number of items confiscated are four firearms, five rifles, 52 rounds of ammunition, 31 cell phones, a tablet, three vehicles, four motorcycles, nine laptops, 58 sachets of dagga and various quantities of other drugs, computers, cash and other suspected stolen items such as gardening equipment, clothes and groceries.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com