A tour of the facilities and presentations by the current learners and educators at various exhibitions during the Hoër Tegniese Skool Tom Naudé open day last Wednesday served to educate prospective learners and parents about the subjects and extramural activities offered at the school.
The first stop was at the hall where prospective learners were guided through different subject stalls that included Engineering Graphics, Physical Sciences, Technical Sciences, Mathematics as well as various sporting codes before proceeding to the workshop to learn more about the technical side of the school.
Among the attendees were former learners, Melissa Pienaar and Jackie Swanepoel who accompanied their children to see if they would want to be enrolled at the school.
They said the school maintains excellent discipline and has a promising future, adding that they trust the school with the future of their children. They reiterated that the country needed more technically qualified people hence they were confident that the school would help bridge that gap. Principal Piet Holtzhausen indicated that confusion sometimes exists about technical schools therefore day was meant to show parents and future learners what it is really all about.
“President Cyril Ramaphosa stressed the fact that we need to improve technical schools hence we are trying to do just that by convincing parents to consider enrolling their children at the institution. We are going to host another information session later in the year,” Holtzhausen explained.
He added that they want to emphasise the fact that women can also be technicians. The technical schools are amazing and most people who took that route don’t struggle for jobs, he highlighted. Holtzhausen was happy with the turnout but cautioned that they need learners who are good in Maths, Physical Sciences and languages.
Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
HTS Tom Naudé Deputy Principal Vanessa Kachelhoffer welcomes parents and learners to the open day.
Enrize van der Walt and Dylan Botha demonstrate centrifugal force to prospective HTS Tom Naudé learner, Jaco Willemse.
Educator Sarie Schmahl demonstrates some of the science techniques included in the curriculum to learners and parents.
Learners from various primary schools and their parents at the HTS Tom Naudé open day.
Learners who wish to further their secondary education are taken through the HTS Tom Naudé workshop.
HTS Tom Naudé prefect Hilda Tjege guides Piet Hugo learner, Corlea Grobbelaar through the stalls.