The all-new Honda Jazz is diverse, practical, designed with thought behind every detail and eager to create a storm in the local market.
The manufacturer have refined it to give a striking new exterior, more space, enhanced interior appointments and greater overall efficiency. The third-generation Jazz is a significant step up from its highly successful and hugely popular predecessor, but still remains true to the value and functionality clients have come to trust.
Great functionality does not mean that Honda compromised on style. The Jazz’s eye-catching, contemporary styling ensures strong visual appeal, a linear and aggressive look, steeply raked windscreen and sculpted flanks come together to form a streamlined profile. The new Jazz’s assertive style is complemented by short overhangs, a tapering roofline and wheel arches. Carefully considered design elements contribute to an overall impression of dynamic poise and capability. On the practical side of things, the all-new body and chassis link reduced mass to increased rigidity. The new chassis accommodates a longer wheelbase, which benefits ride quality, directional stability and handling.
Stunning interior packed with safety features.
The interior of the new Honda Jazz is just stunning. When you drive the Jazz there is a lot more to see as the specially designed windscreen increases all-round vision and slim pillars allow light to flow through the cabin. Chrome detailing and coloured lighting illuminate audio features, meters and switches creating a carefully integrated interior. With everything at your fingertips, you can concentrate fully on the road ahead. A 7-inch touch screen display audio gives you access to your phone contacts, videos and music while the Multi-Information Display allows you to monitor the length of your journey and your fuel consumption. Bluetooth is available across the range.
Safety is top priority when designing Honda and the Jazz is no exception. The driver and passengers can rely on the features that have been rigorously tested to ensure travel safety. The protection of passengers and pedestrians is paramount in the engineering of the body structure, technology systems and interior features. The Jazz’s new construction incorporates Honda’s latest generation Advanced Compatibility Engineering (ACE) front body structure, which has been designed to meet and exceed the most stringent crash safety standards, offering enhanced passenger protection in the case of a collision. Extensive active and passive safety features include six airbags across the range. The Jazz also comes with Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) brakes and Electronic Brake-force Distribution (EBD). Emergency Brake Assist (EBA) boosts braking power in an emergency, while Vehicle Stability Assist (VSA) calculates the amount of power, brake-force and tyre grip needed to prevent skidding, giving you maximum control. The Jazz also comes with Hill Start Assist (HSA), holding the brakes for you during a hill start and making sure you get away without any problems.
The Jazz comes with either a 1,2 or 1,5 litre engine. The 1,2 litre engine offers 66 kW of power and 110 Nm of torque while the 1,5 offers 88 kW of power and 145 Nm of torque. For the more sporty drivers there is also a 1,5 Sport model available which delivers 95 kW of power and 155 Nm of torque.
For more information contact BB Honda Polo­kwane on 015 297 0099 or visit their showroom at 91 Landdros Maré Street.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com