Amid threats of a shutdown in Vuwani on Election Day (Wednesday), National Police Commissioner John Sithole is expected to address communities in the area regarding the provincial state of readiness for the country’s 2019 Elections today (Monday).
Pro Makhado Demarcation Task Team deputy chairperson, Arnold Mulaudzi indicated that yesterday (Sunday) the Police disrupted a peaceful community meeting by allegedly firing rubber bullets and discharging tear-gas to disperse residents. He, however, stressed that the Police later on released a statement to apologise to residents for this gruesome exercise. Mulaudzi reiterated that there are no injuries reported and added that the demarcation issue has been going on for four years now but government is not coming to the party.
Mulaudzi emphasised that residents who want to be served by Makhado Local Municipality will stage a total shutdown tomorrow (Tuesday) to boycott the national general elections. He further highlighted that schools in Vuwani will not be opened for elections as residents are not going to cast their votes as they did in 2016.
“We are going to stage a total shutdown on Tuesday and later have a mass meeting at the stadium. The Provincial Police Commissioner, Nneke Ledwaba was in Vuwani on Sunday but there is nothing that can be done to convince residents to vote. We want to be serviced by Makhado Municipality and we will never change our tune,” Mulaudzi explained.
National Police Spokesperson Vishnu Naidoo confirmed Sithole’s intended visit as part of the operational and communication plans for the national and provincial elections.
Sithole’s visit will include a state of readiness parade expected to be held at the Vuwani Police
Station. Sithole is expected to be accompanied by members of the Justice Crime Prevention and Security (JCPS) Cluster and executive management of the South African Police Service, according to Naidoo. After the parade Sithole is expected to visit hotspots in the area.
JCPS members conducted a similar visit in KwaZulu-Natal on Friday after it was recently identified as a hotspot by Police Minister Bheki Cele.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za