Riaan Kayser, budding 12-year-old rugby player from Laerskool Pietersburg-Noord Primary is testimony to the success that hard work and commitment can have.
Riaan who hails from Westenburg was recently selected for the u.13 provincial Blue Bulls Primary Schools rugby team that represented Limpopo at the provincial u.13 tournament held in Ermelo, Mpumalanga on 25 May.
He was selected from a pool of talented young rugby players from various primary schools in the province that participated in trials held at Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos a fortnight ago.
The agile scrumhalf said his inclusion in the provincial team gave him hope of playing for the national rugby team in future.
Riaan is one of the key players in Laerskool Pietersburg-Noord Primary’s first rugby team. He won man of the match awards during the school’s rugby matches he has played last season.
“I started playing rugby at the age of nine and it has been my wish to represent my province ever since. I have participated in many trials but without success. I am glad that my commitment to the game is beginning to pay off now. It was my first call-up to the provincial team and I am looking forward to make good use of the opportunity. I played my first match in Ermelo over the weekend and it was a good experience. I enjoyed all the games and interacting with the new teammates. We have a second match on 1 June at Garsfontein High School in Pretoria. It is a friendly match and I am looking forward to another adventure,” Riaan remarked.
He says his favourite rugby player is Springbok and Golden Lions winger, Aphiwe Dyantyi.
“He is the best wing in the country after Bryan Habana. I am a scrumhalf in the team but I love his speed and agility, he reads the game very well and he is just a marvel to watch. I would love to see myself playing in his position in the national team one day.”
He thanked his parents and his coaches for the role they are playing is shaping his rugby career. “My rugby coaches at school have been phenomenal. They always guide me and encourage me to work hard and improve my game. My parents are always supportive, they come to my matches and practice sessions.”
Elina Visagie-Kayser, Riaan’s mother said she was happy to see him excelling in one of the top sporting codes in the world. “From an early age he was active in all sports codes. He played soccer, he did athletics but he was good in rugby. We are happy for him. He is following the footsteps of his unlce, Deon Kayser, a former Springbok player and one the greatest rugby players in his era.”
Blue Bulls Primary Schools team manager, Hennie Lourens described Riaan as a prospect for the future. “He is a good rugby player and I think one day he will play for one of the big provincial rugby teams.”
Story and photo: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com