With only six days to go before South Africans go to the polls for the sixth general election of the democratic dispensation, the Vhangona traditional council from Venda under Kingship of Adzwidohwi Nephawe and his council endorsed Provincial Leader of Democratic Alliance (DA), Jacques Smalle as Limpopo Premier candidate at a meeting held in Polokwane yesterday(Thursday).
Nephawe believes Smalle is the right man to lead the province and resolve all the challenges and problems traditional leaders are confronted with in the province.
He claims the African National Congress (ANC) has failed to resolve traditional leadership disputes and claims in the province. “We have engaged the ANC on several occasions to restore our kingship but our efforts were wasted. They stated that they won’t be marginalised by the democratic government forever. We refuse to be side-lined and brushed aside as if we do not exist. We demand the restoration of all other junior Vhangona traditional leadership positions which Premier Stan Mathabatha rejected in favour of Toni Mphephu Ramabulana and his cohorts now,” Nephawe said.
They also called upon the ANC government to speed up the process of prosecuting all those who allegedly looted the public coffers of the VBS investors. “We want the perpetrators to face the full might of the law even if they are their comrades on the national assembly or provincial legislature lists. Our people are languishing in poverty today as we speak because of the looting. We want them to stop the lip service and deliver right now. Our people cannot wait for ever, neither will they tolerate your slackness or empty promises,” Nephawe cautioned.
In response Provincial DA leader, Jacque Smalle said they were honoured and proud to be endorsed by Vhangona traditional council. “Their endorsement shows that DA is building one South Africa. We believe and hope that our relationship with them will go beyond 8 May. We can assure them we will help them to resolves challenges and issues. We have already started, it is a long process and we can assure them that we will assist them,” remarked Smalle.
Story and photo: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com