Home girl, 2016 Olympic medallist and 2017 world champion in the 800 m for women, Caster Semenya can rely on support by the Provincial Government as well as a political party after the Court of Arbitration for Sport (Cas) on Wednesday sided with an International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) ruling which forces female athletes to regulate testosterone levels.
The ruling by Cas means that Semenya, who has not been beaten over the 800 m since 2015, will have to take medication to significantly reduce her testosterone levels if she wants to run internationally at events between 400 m and a mile.
In a press statement Premier’s spokesperson, Kenny Mathivha indicated that the ruling is, according to Premier Stan Mathabatha, a blow to the entire sporting world and women in general.
“Together with all South African people, Limpopo as the home of Caster feels the judgement and decision is unfair and borders on discrimination and has nothing to do with medical or psychological strengths of any kind,” Mathabatha was quoted to have said.
Mathabatha has pleaded for some sanity from anybody who cares to listen. “Let’s not destroy the future of women in sports – let’s not destroy Caster’s future.”
In a press statement by Democratic Alliance (DA) National Spokesperson Solly Malatsi he reiterated that IAAF policy is wholly discriminatory to female athletes who happen to have higher testosterone levels in their bodies and no doubt sets an awful precedence for the sport.
“The DA stands in full support of the remarkably talented Semenya; she undoubtedly is a talented young woman who has made South Africa proud. She has encouraged other young female athletes to participate in sports and to believe in themselves. She has flown our flag high and has consistently raised the bar in the global sports fraternity, despite opposition that has been levelled against her natural abilities,” Malatsi said.
He added that Semenya deserves the right to compete just like all other female athletes before her.
The DA calls on the South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc) and the South African Government to provide greater support to Semenya and use all available processes to oppose this decision and fight for her right to compete on the international stage without having to take any drugs to suppress what she was naturally born to do – being a national champion, according to Malatsi.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com