The Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) received a record 82 543 special vote applications which exceeds the applications received in 2014 by 63%.
Of these 65 663 applications are for Home Visits for the National ballot and 65 055 for the Provincial ballot. Only 173 applications were declined for both ballots.
This was shared with the media by Nkaro Mateta, Provincial Electoral Officer of the IEC during the Limpopo election readiness briefing in Polokwane today (Tuesday).
She informed that the province has registered just over 2,6 m voters on the segment of the national common voters roll and has 3 157 voting stations.
On conflict on the ground and challenges prior to the elections, Mateta said they had already recorded more than 30 cases of election related conflict. “Police have already handled cases and some people have already paid fines. By close of business yesterday (Monday), only eight of the 2 978 voting stations that received applications for special votes could not open due to several reasons. These include four voting stations in Giyani, namely Vuyani, Nghilazi in ward 23 as well as Bvuma and Munghonghoma in ward 24. These stations did not open because the community wants the road tarred. Furthermore, 93 unused provincial ballots for Nghilaziwere were knife damaged by members of the public who entered the household of a voter while electoral staff were executing the special vote and demanded that the process be stopped immediately. Election materials were taken from the IEC staff and the approved special vote lists as well as the envelopes were torn. Seven people had already cast their votes and these were not damaged. A case was opened at the Dzuemeri Satellite Police Station. The latest report received was that two suspects had been arrested.”
Mateta added that all electoral materials, consisting of over 3,8 million ballot papers for the national and provincial elections, almost 9 375 ballot boxes, nearly 6 345 voting compartments, about 3 485 voting station arrow signs and 3 548 stationery packs have already been delivered to the municipal warehouses and will ultimately reach all the 3 157 stations on the morning of Election Day. “These include security materials and Braille template for visually impaired. All the venues for the 3 157 voting stations have been secured. Of these, 2 424 of 77% are in schools, 4% are community centres, 4% are places of worship, 3% are tribal authorities, and approximately 4% are temporary structures. The biggest voting centre in Limpopo is Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos It has 44 staff members expected to service over 7 000 voters,” Mateta said.
She stressed that all 34 political parties contesting elections in Limpopo have been fully briefed about the state of readiness and their agents have also been trained. “Limpopo has 49 seats in the Legislature that will be contested by 852 (over 41% more than in 2014). Furthermore, the age ranges for the nominated candidates are between 18 and 80 years.
“We take this moment to declare that the Electoral Commission is ready to meet and discharge its constitutional duty. This duty will be discharged in a manner that affirms our collective heritage as proud South Africans,” Mateta concluded.
Story and photo: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com