Three persons were taken into custody on Monday evening and were to appear in court on charges of malicious damage to property while some residents of the city still had to cope without water by Tuesday afternoon after pumping from the Olifantspoort water plant of Lepelle Northern Water (LNW) was interrupted by protestors who had been invading the plant and allegedly sabotaging operations and vandalising equipment since Saturday.
The reason for the disruption of operations could not be officially established, however, a social media posting that was forwarded indicated that the communities were upset about service delivery issues which included the lack of a high school, roads, bridges and a clinic. “So no one will get water until we get what we want….And we won’t vote on 8 May 2019,” the posting read.
LNW Spokesperson Simon Mpamonyane said community members allegedly coming from the Lesitse and Tswaing villages entered the plant premises early on Saturday and forced officials of LNW to hand over the keys activating the system. “Some community members are, however, still on the premises making it impossible to restart the plant,” Mpamonyane said on Monday and added that the entrance road to the plant was also obstructed.
“After Police intervention on Monday evening the keys were retrieved and operations at the plant resumed but it was discovered that some of the equipment were vandalised and pumping could not continue. The defects were repaired overnight and the plant was back into operation early this morning,” he confirmed on Tuesday.
Communications and Marketing Manager of Polokwane Municipality, Matshidiso Mothapo said on Monday that in the meantime the city had to rely on water from Ebenezer Dam and the local boreholes and that the city reservoirs were therefore at critical levels.
Mothapo explained that although LNW was pumping water to the city at full capacity, reservoir levels take hours to recover because consumers are using water at the same time.
Mamphaswa Seabi of the Provincial Police Communications Centre confirmed that 40 persons were arrested at the plant on Monday evening. Three persons were positively linked with the case and will appear in court on charges of malicious damage to property in due course.
The Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) on Tuesday said that, following a meeting with Polokwane Executive Mayor Thembi Nkadimeng, a technical team comprising officials of DWS, Lepelle Northern Water and Capricorn District Municipality (CDM) has been formed to monitor the situation. DWS also confirmed that a meeting between the technical team, the Department of Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs, mayors of Polokwane, CDM and Lepelle-Nkumpi and leaders of the protesting community, was scheduled to take place later in the day in an attempt to find common grounds regarding the demands.
Story: BARRY VILJOEN
>>barryv.observer@gmail.com