Besides addressing the situation around Vuwani being a possible hotspot in the province ahead of next week’s elections and measures having been put in place to mitigate threats or incidents during that period, the Police in Limpopo and at national are tight-lipped about the deployment of their members at voting stations.
When approached for comment on the Police’s readiness for the elections, Provincial Police Communications Head, Motlafela Mojapelo referred Polokwane Observer to National Police Spokesperson Vishnu Naidoo. “Unfortunately we do not give out figures of deployment for security reasons. However, it will suffice to say that Vuwani has indeed been categorised as a hotspot and measures have been put in place to mitigate threats and incidents,” Naidoo said.
On whether there were any other areas in the province considered hotspots he said: “All other areas that have been identified are for operational purposes only. It is our constitutional mandate and obligation to ensure that we stabilise those areas to ensure that people are able to cast their votes without any fear of intimidation or reprisals,” Naidoo said.
Earlier today (Thursday) Police Minister Bheki Cele addressed the media on the Police’s readiness for next week’s elections. During his address he reportedly indicated that a total of 51 306 Police officers and an additional 3 504 reservists will be deployed across the country. “Security must be coordinated by all departments in all clusters to ensure safe elections and measures are in place to protect all citizens. The elections safety plan will be rolled out from 6 to 8 May,” Cele was quoted saying.
He reiterated that North West and KwaZulu-Natal were identified as high risk provinces but that a number of places in other provinces were also identified and officers will be deployed accordingly.
“As part of the deployment strategy the capacity of five teams will be maintained at national level to be deployed at any part of the country where the situation requires urgent intervention. The elections security plan is managed by national, provincial, district and local joint structures such as the South African National Defence Force (SANDF), Police, Department of Home Affairs, Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC), Demarcation Board, Department of Justice and Constitutional Development and the State Security Agency.”
Cele added that the Police and other stakeholders such as the SANDF will enhance visibility and continuously monitor protests and shut-downs. He further indicated that the Police will be utilised to escort presiding officers to special voters and to assist in the voting process of 170 000 inmates at the country’s 243 correctional facilities.
Cele concluded saying that the SANDF will work with the Police and be on standby to provide support to the IEC in case of a disaster.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com