Local female soccer club First Touch Academy which is campaigning in the South African Football Association (Safa) National Women’s League received sporting equipment and playing apparel worth R85 000 from a national online sports betting platform in Polokwane last Thursday.
The academy comprises of talented female soccer players from various areas in the province and it the only Limpopo’s representatives in the inaugural Safa women’s league.
It also boast three Banyana Banyana players in Victoria Muorwa, Molatelo Sebata and club captain, Noko Matlou who celebrated her 150th cap in style at the recent Fifa Women’s World Cup in France.
According to David Rachidi, Marketing Manager of the donor company the gesture is part of their continued efforts of aiding sport development in the country. “We were honored to be reaching different parts of South Africa and playing a vital role in helping clubs and organisations in sports development. The wonderful work done by First Touch Academy alludes to the potential they have as a club. As a brand that is passionate about sport and our communities, we believe it is our duty to lend a helping hand wherever possible and contribute to the ever-growing passion of sport in the country. We hope this donation will help the team continue doing well and unearth more Banyana Banyana players,” Rachidi remarked.
Matlou said the donation would certainly boost the club’s confidence and preparations for matches in the national women’s league. “It is very generous of our benefactors to travel all the way to Limpopo to help a women’s football club in such an impactful manner. There are not many brands that take the time to understand the challenges faced by women’s football in the country and what they have done for us will certainly help us as a club and those that come after us” Matlou said.
Story and photo: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com
Noko Matlou, Captain of First Touch Academy with some of the training equipment the club received.
David Rachidi, Marketing Manager of the donor company, Sipho Kekana, owner, John Hlako, coach and Tlou Molekwane, assistant coach of First Touch Academy.