Kemisho Tsatsi, a 23-year-old model from Ladanna, made Limpopo proud by snatching away the Mr South Africa Model of the Year 2019/20 title before the noses of seven other contestants during a pageant held in North West recently.
With issues of gender-based violence widely reportedly in the country, Tsatsi indicated that the pageant was focused on creating better men as the adjudication panel was looking for someone who was selfless and inspirational. He further stated that it was also aimed at grooming men into public figures. Tsatsi first won Mr Face of Polokwane in June ahead of the national competition. He emphasised that he did not take part in the contests for fame but to be an inspiration to young boys.
He completed the N6 electrical engineering at Capricorn College for Technical and Vocational Education and Training’s Seshego campus last year and is currently doing in-service training while working towards a diploma. He is also a motivational speaker who charges businesses for his services but works for free when he is invited to schools and institutions of higher learning.
“I believe that every child needs a role model. I want children with a vision to make me their target for them to work harder than I do to become better than me in the future. The pageants were not a walk in the park because I had to put in a lot of effort to win. I always tell myself that I have to work more than all my opponents in order to emerge victorious. People must always remember that there is no money at the beginning of everything but just you, passion and talent. You shouldn’t give up on your dreams because of a lack of money in that particular industry. You need to put as much energy and determination in what you believe in to earn a better living in the future. The world only owes hard workers,” Tsatsi explained.
He is planning to host a body building competition next October to promote a healthy lifestyle. With body building challenges one can win the same title multiple times which means it will motivate participants to stay fit rather than beauty pageants where you are only allowed to win a certain competition once, he remarked. Tsatsi is preparing for Mr Limpopo which is set for December, Mr King of SA and Mr SA International that are expected to take place next year in April and August respectively. His biggest goal is to become Mr SA and Mr World before he reaches the age of 25.
In conclusion Tsatsi said: “Discipline is success and getting better in what you do is a daily fight – a campaign. Everything starts easy, gets harder along the way but you have to make it look easy. Always give thanks to people who take care of you. I am an orphan but my aunt, Mamubu Lesudi has been taking good care of me. She is like my God on earth and she has made me who I am today. We should always appreciate the support and love we receive from those close to us.”
Story and photo: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za