The National Treasury is adamant that service providers and in particular SMMEs should be paid within 30 days to ensure their sustainability, was the message of Deputy Minister of Finance David Masondo when he addressed businesspeople from over the province at a breakfast networking session that was hosted by the Limpopo United Business Forum (LUBF) at a venue in the city on Friday.
Masondo’s visit to Polokwane was part of his roadshow covering all nine provinces during the next two months.
Deputy chairperson of the LUBF Ashley Rasebotsa welcomed guests and expressed his delight with the exceptionally good attendance of the event.
MEC for Economic Development, Environment and Tourism Thabo Mokone introduced the Deputy Minister and alluded to some of the developmental initiatives of the province which included the Special Economic Zones as well as the envisaged high speed rail system between Gauteng and the Victoria Falls.
Masondo said that the roadshows are intended to engage provincial and local government leaders on issues relating to the application of prudent fiscal control measures in light of the constraints detailed in the budget speech, among others. “I also intend to use this opportunity to communicate Treasury’s plan to grow the economy and reduce unemployment; and re-emphasise Treasury’s commitment to supporting SMMEs in line with the commitment to promote new entrants in different economic sectors. Government departments at various levels will also be encouraged to adhere to the commitments already made by Treasury regarding the payment of small businesses within the stipulated 30-day period as a critical element to support SMMEs who do business with the state,” Masondo said and added that the fiscus is under pressure.
“This roadshow is to urge colleagues in provinces and municipalities to work with us to spend carefully, particularly in areas of compensation of employees, of course without necessarily compromising service delivery. We also want provincial and local governments to support small and medium businesses by paying them on time if they have rendered goods and services because some of these businesses are forced to close down or go into more debt if they are not paid, which eventually affects economic growth,” Masondo said.
Story and photos: BARRY VILJOEN
>>barryv.observer@gmail.com
Deputy Minister of Finance David Masondo addresses guests at the LUBF breakfast.
 
MEC for Economic Development, Environment and Tourism Thabo Mokone introduces the Deputy Minister.
Deputy Chairperson of the LUBF Ashley Rasebotsa is the programme director at the breakfast.
Guests at the LUBF breakfast are Doreen Legodi, Maurice Moloto, Moikhumi Mashiane, Grace Sibara and Bernice van Vuuren.