One of the province’s most popular annual mountain biking events, the Magoebaskloof Classic, will be hosted at Stanford Lake College on Saturday.
The Insect Science Classic as it is now known, has had a facelift and a rebranding with the main event sponsors taking over the naming rights of the event which starts and finishes at the Stanford Lake College in Haenertsburg.
Featuring four races over 82, 45, 20 and 10 km distances it offers something for everybody from the unfit and inexperienced looking to take their early pedal strokes in the sport, up to the elite racing snakes who are hoping for intense high-speed racing action.
The organisers have revamped and improved the route with some new and exciting terrain of riding. The 82 km riders will start at 07:00 with the other distances to be set off at 15 minute intervals thereafter. Entry fees are R210, R150, R100 and R70 respectively.
The event also doubles as the Limpopo Championships, which will add an extra level of competitiveness, particularly for the local riders as they chase provincial titles.
Included in the field will be Alan Gordon, recent winner of the prestigious eight-day Crocodile Trophy event in Australia. Despite his recent heroics against an international field in one of Australia’s toughest events, Gordon cannot expect to have things all his own way in Magoebaskloof with a strong field of local riders, and visitors from Johannesburg and Pretoria, sure to provide a stiff challenge.
Among the local challengers hoping to unseat Gordon will be the current leader of the Limpopo Provincial Series, Respect Ramashia and Heinro Malan, who is currently second on the log standings while Carel van Wyk who finished ninth in the Crocodile Trophy is also sure to be in the mix.
The route for the blue ribbon 82 km race is a mix of forest roads, firebreaks and custom built single track, including sections of purpose-built trail by Hylton Turvey, a world-renown trail builder who is best known for creating the famous Karkloof Trails in KwaZulu-Natal.
“We are so excited about the new-look event this year. We have revamped the event and thanks to the generosity of Gerhard Booysen from Insect Science we are aiming to take this race up to the next level, and the change in name of the event is simply the first step in that. Along with Copper Moon Events and Stanford Lake College we have made some great improvements with upgraded routes, increased prize money and a good vibe. We will also have a big screen up to show the Rugby World Cup final, so after enjoying their day on the bike riders can watch the Springboks win a third World Cup title with their mountain biking mates,” Race Director Marc None was quoted to have said in a press release.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com